Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large finetuned on 10 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the California Avocado Commission within the state government, and requires the commission to establish no fewer than 3 districts and no more than 5 districts within the state, each representing approximately the same percentage of avocado production in California. Existing law requires the commission to consist of a specified number of producers who are not handlers, based on the number of districts the commission establishes, 4 handlers who are elected on a statewide basis, one public member, and the Secretary of Food and Agriculture, and requires there to be 2 alternate handler members. Existing law requires a vacancy of a member position on the commission to be filled by the alternate member. Existing law authorizes certain handlers who handle a specified percentage of volume of avocados to appoint one handler member to the commission and the other handlers to nominate and elect the remaining handler members.
This bill would instead require that a vacancy of a member position be filled by a majority vote of the commission. The bill would decrease the number of handlers on the commission to 2 members and the number of alternate handler members to one member. The bill would remove the authorization for specified handlers to appoint a handler member.
Existing law requires producer members and alternate producer members, at the time of the election, to have a financial interest in producing, or causing to be produced, avocados for market within the district in which the producer stands for election. Existing law prohibits a producer who chooses to stand for election in a particular district from standing for election in any other district for a period of 4 years from the date of his or her most recent election to the commission.
This bill would delete this prohibition on the producer. The bill would specify that, for these purposes, a producer or grower would not include a person who has an average annual production of less than 10,000 pounds of avocados in the 3 preceding marketing years. The bill would require that, to be nominated and elected to the commission, a handler or alternate handler handle no less than 1% of the total industry volume of avocados in the preceding marketing year.
Existing law provides that a quorum of the commission is 11 voting members if the commission consists of 3 or 5 districts, and is 10 voting members if the commission consists of 4 districts. Existing law authorizes the commission to recommend to the secretary that the operations of the commission be suspended upon a specified finding of 11 voting members if the commission consists of 3 or 5 districts, or 10 voting members if the commission consists of 4 districts.
This bill would instead provide that a quorum of the commission is 9 voting members if the commission consists of 3 or 4 districts, and is 10 voting members if the commission consists of 5 districts. The bill would make a similar change to the authorization of the commission to recommend suspension of its operations.
Existing law requires the secretary to establish a list of producers in each district and, in establishing the lists, requires handlers to file, within 90 days following receipt of a written request by the secretary, certain information about each producer from whom the handler purchased or handled avocados.
This bill would require handlers to file the information, including the grove location of each producer instead of district numbers, within 60 days.
Existing law, the California Marketing Act of 1937, authorizes the Secretary of Food and Agriculture to issue marketing orders which regulate producer marketing, the processing, distributing, or handling in any manner of any commodity by any and all persons that are engaged in the producer marketing, processing, distributing, or handling of the commodity within this state. The act requires that any marketing order issued pursuant to the act provide for the establishment of an advisory board to assist the secretary in the administration of any marketing order, as prescribed. Existing law also establishes various commissions and councils to advance the interests of the state’s agricultural and seafood industries to provide benefit to the entire industry and all the people of this state.
Existing law, the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting Act, requires, with specified exceptions, that all meetings of a state body, as defined, be open and public and all persons be permitted to attend any meeting of a state body. Existing law requires a state body subject to the open meeting requirements of the act that conducts a meeting or proceeding by teleconference to post agendas at all teleconference locations and requires each teleconference location to be accessible to the public. The act also requires the state body to provide an opportunity for members of the public to address the state body directly from any teleconference location.
This bill would require that, for a meeting held by teleconference by a marketing order advisory board or an agricultural or seafood industry council or commission, a member of the advisory board, council, or commission participating by teleconference be listed in the minutes of the meeting and would require the member to provide notice of his or her participation by teleconference at least 24 hours before the meeting. The bill would require the advisory board, council, or commission to designate a primary physical meeting location and would require at least one member of the advisory board, council, or commission to be in attendance at the primary physical meeting location. The bill would require the teleconference phone number and other specified information to be included in the agenda and would require the agenda to be open to the public. The bill would require the advisory board, council, or commission to adopt certain teleconferencing guidelines prior to holding a meeting by teleconference.
Existing constitutional provisions require that a statute that limits the right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
produced summary is: 
(1) The Government Claims Act sets forth the general procedure for the presentation of a claim as a prerequisite to the commencement of an action or proceeding. The act requires, among other things, that a plaintiff in a suit brought in a superior court of this state must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the plaintiff has suffered damages, as specified, as a result of any action or proceeding commenced or approved by a court in this state. The act exempts a plaintiff from its provisions when the plaintiff has a valid reason to believe that the defendant has suffered damages, as specified. The act exempts a plaintiff from its provisions when the plaintiff
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds that this bill is necessary because of the unique circumstances affecting members of entities authorized in Division 21 (commencing with Section 58001) and Division 22 (commencing with Section 63901) of the Food and Agricultural Code as a result of involvement in the production, processing, or handling of agricultural products.
SEC. 2.
Section 58853 is added to the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:
58853.
(a) Notwithstanding Section 11123 of the Government Code, all of the following shall apply to a meeting held by teleconference under this chapter by an advisory board:
(1) A member of the advisory board participating by teleconference shall be listed in the minutes of the meeting and shall provide notice of his or her participation by teleconference at least 24 hours before the meeting.
(2) The advisory board shall designate a primary physical meeting location where participants may physically attend the meeting and participate. At least one member of the advisory board shall be in attendance at the primary physical meeting location.
(3) The teleconference phone number, and, if applicable, the Internet Web site or other information indicating how the public can access the meeting remotely, shall be included in the agenda, which shall be available to the public.
(b) Nothing in this section shall exempt the advisory board from providing information regarding the physical location of an advisory board meeting or any teleconference participation information, including the identity of an advisory board member who might be participating by teleconference.
(c) Prior to holding a meeting by teleconference pursuant to this section, the advisory board shall adopt teleconferencing guidelines to address issues that include, but are not limited to, cancellations as a result of technical difficulties, ensuring transparency, and public participation.
SEC. 3.
Section 63906 is added to the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:
63906.
(a) Notwithstanding Section 11123 of the Government Code, all of the following shall apply to a meeting held by teleconference under this division by a commission or council:
(1) A member of the commission or council participating by teleconference shall be listed in the minutes of the meeting and shall provide notice of his or her participation by teleconference at least 24 hours before the meeting.
(2) The commission or council shall designate a primary physical meeting location where participants may physically attend the meeting and participate. At least one member of the commission or council shall be in attendance at the primary physical meeting location.
(3) The teleconference phone number, and, if applicable, the Internet Web site or other information indicating how the public can access the meeting remotely, shall be included in the agenda, which shall be available to the public.
(b) Nothing in this section shall exempt the commission or council from providing information regarding the physical location of a commission or council meeting or any teleconference participation information, including the identity of a commission or council member who might be participating by teleconference.
(c) Prior to holding a meeting by teleconference pursuant to this section, the commission or council shall adopt teleconferencing guidelines to address issues that include, but are not limited to, cancellations as a result of technical difficulties, ensuring transparency, and public participation.
SEC. 4.
Section 67039 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67039.
“Producer” or “grower” means any person who is engaged within this state in the business of producing, or causing to be produced, avocados for market. “Producer” or “grower” does not include any person who has an average annual production of less than 10,000 pounds of avocados in the three preceding marketing years.
SEC. 5.
Section 67051 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67051.
(a) There is in the state government the California Avocado Commission.
(b) The commission shall be composed of the following members:
(1) (A) If the commission consists of three districts, nine producers who are not handlers, three elected from each district.
(B) If the commission consists of four districts, eight producers who are not handlers, two elected from each district.
(C) If the commission consists of five districts, 10 producers who are not handlers, two elected from each district.
(2) Two avocado handlers elected on a statewide basis.
(3) One public member who shall be appointed to the commission by the secretary from nominees recommended by the commission.
(4) The secretary who shall be a nonvoting ex officio member of the commission.
SEC. 6.
Section 67051.1 of the Food and Agricultural Code is repealed.
SEC. 7.
Section 67052 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67052.
(a) Each district shall have one alternate producer member, to be elected in the same manner as producer members.
(b) The alternate producer member shall, in the absence of a producer member from the same district, sit in place of the absent producer member on the commission and shall have, and be able to exercise, all the rights, privileges, and powers of the producer member when sitting on the commission.
SEC. 8.
Section 67052.3 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67052.3.
(a) There shall be one alternate handler member to be elected in the same manner as the handler members.
(b) The alternate handler member shall, in the absence of a handler member, sit in place of the absent handler member on the commission and shall have, and be able to exercise, all the rights, privileges, and powers of the handler member when sitting on the commission.
SEC. 9.
Section 67053 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67053.
(a) Any vacancy on the commission occurring by the failure of any person elected to the commission as a member or alternate member to continue in his or her position due to a change in status making him or her ineligible to serve, or through death, removal, or resignation, shall be filled, for the unexpired portion of the term, by a majority vote of the commission.
(b) Any person filling a vacant member or alternate member position shall meet all the qualifications set forth in this article as required for the member whose office he or she is to fill.
SEC. 10.
Section 67054 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67054.
(a) Producer members and alternate producer members on the commission shall have a financial interest in producing, or causing to be produced, avocados for market. In order to be elected a member or alternate member, a producer shall, at the time of the election, have a financial interest in the production of avocados within the district in which the producer stands for election.
(b) A producer may stand for election in any district in which the producer has a financial interest in the production of avocados.
(c) Handler members and the alternate handler members shall have a financial interest in handling avocados for markets. To be nominated and elected, a handler or alternate handler shall handle no less than 1 percent of the total industry volume of avocados in the preceding marketing year. Any handler elected to the commission pursuant to this section shall be required to maintain his or her eligibility under this section during his or her entire term of office.
(d) The public member shall not have any financial interest in the avocado industry. Except for the nomination of another public member, the public member and his or her alternate member on the commission shall have all the powers, rights, and privileges of any other member on the commission.
SEC. 11.
Section 67059 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67059.
Unless otherwise specified, a quorum of the commission shall be any nine voting members if the commission consists of three or four districts and any 10 voting members if the commission consists of five districts. The vote of a majority of members present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall constitute the act of the commission.
SEC. 12.
Section 67081 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67081.
(a) The secretary shall establish a list of producers in each district. In establishing the lists, the secretary shall require that handlers in the state submit the names, mailing addresses, grove location, and handled volume of each producer from whom they purchased or handled avocados in the preceding marketing season. The request for information from handlers shall be in writing and shall be filed by the handlers within 60 days following receipt of the written request.
(b) Any producer of avocados whose name does not appear upon the secretary’s list of producers may have his or her name established on the list by filing with the commission a signed statement, identifying himself or herself as a producer. Failure to be on the list does not exempt the producer from paying assessments under this chapter.
SEC. 13.
Section 67132 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
67132.
Upon the finding of nine voting members of the commission if the commission consists of three or four districts, or of 10 voting members of the commission if the commission consists of five districts, that this chapter has not tended to effectuate its declared purposes, the commission may recommend to the secretary that the operations of the commission shall be suspended, provided that the suspension shall not become effective until the expiration of the current marketing season. The secretary shall, upon receipt of the recommendation, or upon a petition filed with him or her requesting the suspension, signed by 15 percent of the producers by number who produced not less than 15 percent of the volume in the immediately preceding year, cause a referendum to be conducted among the listed producers to determine if the operation of this chapter and the operations of the commission shall be suspended, and shall establish a referendum period, which shall not be less than 10 days nor more than 60 days in duration. The secretary is authorized to prescribe any additional procedure necessary to conduct the referendum. At the close of the established referendum period, the secretary shall tabulate the ballots filed during the period. If at least 40 percent of the total number of producers, on a list established by the secretary marketing 40 percent of the total volume marketed by all producers during the last completed marketing season, participate in the referendum, the secretary shall suspend this chapter upon the expiration of the current marketing season, if he or she finds either one of the following:
(a) Sixty-five percent or more of the producers who voted in the referendum voted in favor of the suspension, and the producers so voting marketed 51 percent or more of the total quantity of avocados marketed in the preceding marketing season by all of the producers who voted in the referendum.
(b) Fifty-one percent or more of the producers who voted in the referendum voted in favor of suspension, and the producers so voting marketed 65 percent or more of the total quantity of avocados marketed in the preceding season by all of the producers who voted in the referendum.
SEC. 14.
The Legislature finds and declares that Sections 2 and 3 of this act, which add Sections 58853 and 63906 to the Food and Agricultural Code, impose a limitation on the public’s right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional provision, the Legislature makes the following findings to demonstrate the interest protected by these limitations and the need for protecting that interest:
In order for food and agriculture marketing order advisory boards and agricultural and seafood industry councils and commissions to hold meetings and make timely decisions, it is in the state’s interest to revise the requirements for teleconferences for these boards, councils, and commissions in order to encourage participation by directors. Many of these directors are located in remote locations in the state that are difficult for the public to access and the directors may need to participate from a nonstationary location.
r1 score is: 
0.1162995594713656
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) The Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), an initiative measure enacted by the voters as Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, imposes a 1% tax on that portion of a taxpayer’s taxable income that exceeds $1,000,000 and requires that the revenue from that tax be deposited in the Mental Health Services Fund to fund various county mental health programs. The MHSA authorizes the Legislature to amend its provisions by a
2/3
vote, provided that the amendment is consistent with and furthers the intent of the act.
Existing law, known as the No Place Like Home Program, requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to award $2,000,000,000 among counties to finance capital costs, including, but not limited to, acquisition, design, construction, rehabilitation, or preservation, and to capitalize operating reserves, of permanent supportive housing for the target population, as specified. Existing law requires the department to distribute $1,800,000,000 through a competitive program and to allocate $200,000,000 among all counties within this state on an “over-the-counter” population basis.
The bill would authorize the California Health Facilities Financing Authority and the department to, among other things, enter into contracts to provide services pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program related to permanent supportive housing. The bill would also authorize the authority to issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for these purposes and to make secured or unsecured loans to the department in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would require that the dollar limit on amounts distributed under the No Place Like Home Program be based on the principal amount of bonds issued by the authority and loaned to the department.
The bill would additionally authorize the use of moneys in the Mental Health Services Fund for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also establish and continuously appropriate the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount in the Mental Health Services Fund. The bill would require the Controller, no later than the last day of each month and prior to any transfer or expenditure from the fund for any other purpose for the following month, to transfer from the Mental Health Services Fund to the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount an amount necessary to cover the costs the authority is required to pay to the department pursuant to an above-described service contract, as determined by the authority but not to exceed an aggregate amount of $140,000,000 per year. The bill would prohibit moneys in the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount from being loaned to the General Fund pursuant to specified statutes.
The bill would exempt service contracts between the department and the authority pursuant to these provisions from specified public contracting laws. The bill would also exempt loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority from any other law applicable to the execution of those agreements or issuance of those bonds, including the California Environmental Quality Act.
(2) Existing law establishes the No Place Like Home Fund and continuously appropriates the moneys in this fund to the Department of Housing and Community Development for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the deposit into the fund of, among other moneys, any proceeds from the issuance of bonds by the Treasurer.
This bill would instead require the department to deposit into the fund the proceeds of loans derived from the issuance of bonds under this bill by the California Health Facilities Financing Authority. The bill would additionally continuously appropriate moneys in the fund to the Treasurer and the authority for purposes of the No Place Like Home Program.
(3) Existing law requires counties to annually report specified information to the Department of Housing and Community Development on activities funded under the No Place Like Home Program, including information on the funded supportive housing development. Existing law also requires the department to report specified information on the program to the Legislature by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect.
This bill would require the department to monitor county compliance with applicable program regulations, loan agreements and regulatory agreements and any agreements related to the program that designate the department as a 3rd party beneficiary, and enforce those agreements to the extent necessary and desirable in order to provide, to the greatest degree possible, the successful provision of permanent supportive housing. The bill would require the department to submit a report to the California Health Facilities Financing Authority by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect, that contains specified information about the counties participating in the program and the services that have been provided pursuant to any service contracts between the department and the authority, as described above.
(4) Existing law establishes a procedure by which a public agency may bring an action in the superior court to determine the validity of any matter authorized by other law. Existing law authorizes an action under this procedure to determine the legality of any action by the Department of Housing and Community Development related to the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the department to issue its first request for proposal for the competitive program no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds within 60 days, after the deadline for appeals under the validation procedure.
This bill would recast this authorization to instead authorize an action to determine the validity of any service contract or loan agreement between the department and the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, as described above, in accordance with specified provisions governing actions to determine the validity of bonds, warrants, contracts, obligations, or evidences of indebtedness. The bill would instead require the department to issue its first request for proposal no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds as soon as reasonably practical, but no later than 150 days, after the effective date of a final judgment with no further opportunity for appeals, in any court proceeding affirming the validity of the service contracts between the department and the authority and any bonds issued by the authority.
(5) Existing law authorizes the Department of Finance to authorize a loan from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund for cashflow purposes in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. Existing law requires that a loan comply with certain requirements, including that the purpose of the loan is to allow the department to begin implementation activities related to the No Place Like Home Program, including drafting program guidelines and regulations.
This bill would instead authorize the Department of Finance to authorize one or more loans from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The bill would additionally authorize loans for the purpose of allowing the Department of Housing and Community Development, the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, and the Treasurer to implement the above-described provisions pertaining to service contracts and loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority.
(6) Existing law makes various findings and declarations regarding the No Place Like Home Program.
This bill would make additional findings and declarations pertaining to the financing and implementation of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also make various technical and conforming changes to the No Place Like Home Program.
(7) This bill would declare that its provisions further the intent of the MHSA.
(8) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
(1) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 15463 is added to the Government Code, to read:
15463.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “No Place Like Home Program” has the same meaning as “program” as defined in Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “No Place Like Home Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(3) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(b) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(c) The authority may provide for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of redeeming, refunding, or retiring any bonds or any series or issue of bonds then outstanding issued under subdivision (b), including the payment of any redemption premium thereon and any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of redemption, purchase, or maturity of the bonds. Subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 15446 apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision. Sections 15441 to 15445, inclusive, and Sections 15447 to 15450, inclusive, apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision in the same manner and to the same extent as bonds issued under subdivision (b).
(d) The authority may make secured or unsecured loans to the Department of Housing and Community Development in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program or to refund bonds previously issued pursuant to this section, in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development. Loan proceeds may also be used to fund reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement and liquidity costs, expenses of funding, financing, and refinancing, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(e) Each of the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development may enter into any agreement for credit enhancement or liquidity, execute any instruments, and do any other acts it deems necessary, convenient, or desirable in connection with revenue bonds issued pursuant to this section or carry out any power expressly granted pursuant to this section.
(f) (1) This section provides a complete, additional, and alternative method for performing the acts authorized by this section and shall be construed as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws; provided, however, that the issuance of the bonds and refunding bonds and the execution of any agreements under this section are not subject to, and need not comply with, the requirements of any other law applicable to the issuance of those bonds or refunding bonds and the execution of those agreements, including, but not limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), funding or financing under this section shall not exempt the permanent supportive housing from the requirements of any other law otherwise applicable to the permanent supportive housing.
SEC. 2.
Section 5849.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
5849.1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares that this part is consistent with and furthers the purposes of the Mental Health Services Act, enacted by Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, within the meaning of Section 18 of that measure.
(b) The Legislature further finds and declares all of the following:
(1) Housing is a key factor for stabilization and recovery to occur and results in improved outcomes for individuals living with a mental illness.
(2) Untreated mental illness can increase the risk of homelessness, especially for single adults.
(3) California has the nation’s largest homeless population that is disproportionally comprised of women with children, veterans, and the chronically homeless.
(4) California has the largest number of homeless veterans in the United States at 24 percent of the total population in our nation. Fifty percent of California’s veterans live with serious mental illness and 70 percent have a substance use disorder.
(5) Fifty percent of mothers experiencing homelessness have experienced a major depressive episode since becoming homeless and 36 percent of these mothers live with post-traumatic stress disorder and 41 percent have a substance use disorder.
(6) Ninety-three percent of supportive housing tenants who live with mental illness and substance use disorders voluntarily participated in the services offered.
(7) Adults who receive 2 years of “whatever-it-takes,” or Full Service Partnership services, experience a 68 percent reduction in homelessness.
(8) For every dollar of bond funds invested in permanent supportive housing, the state and local governments can leverage a significant amount of additional dollars through tax credits, Medicaid health services funding, and other housing development funds.
(9) Tenants of permanent supportive housing reduced their visits to the emergency department by 56 percent, and their hospital admissions by 45 percent.
(10) The cost in public services for a chronically homeless Californian ranges from $60,000 to $100,000 annually. When housed, these costs are cut in half and some reports show reductions in cost of more than 70 percent, including potentially less involvement with the health and criminal justice systems.
(11) Californians have identified homelessness as their top tier priority; this measure seeks to address the needs of the most vulnerable people within this population.
(12) Having counties provide mental health programming and services is a benefit to the state.
(13) The Department of Housing and Community Development is the state entity with sufficient expertise to implement and oversee a grant or loan program for permanent supportive housing of the target population.
(14) The California Health Facilities Financing Authority is authorized by law to issue bonds and to consult with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the State Department of Health Care Services concerning the implementation of a grant or loan program for California counties to support the development of programs that increase access to, and capacity for, crisis mental health services. It is therefore appropriate for the authority to issue bonds and contract for services with the Department of Housing and Community Development to provide grants or loans to California counties for permanent supportive housing for the target population.
(15) Use of bond funding will accelerate the availability of funding for the grant or loan program to provide permanent supportive housing for the target population as compared to relying on annual allocations from the Mental Health Services Fund and better allow counties to provide permanent supportive housing for homeless individuals living with mental illness.
(16) The findings and declarations set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 5849.35 are hereby incorporated herein.
SEC. 3.
Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Instiace Like Home Program Advisory Committee established pursuant to Section 5849.3.
(f) “County” includes, but is not limited to, a city and county, and a city receiving funds pursuant to Section 5701.5.
(g) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.
(h) “Development sponsor” has the same meaning as “sponsor” as defined in Section 50675.2 of the Health and Safety Code.
(i) “Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4.
(j) “Homeless” has the same meaning as defined in Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as that section read on May 1, 2016.
(k) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing,” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(l) “Program” means the process for awarding funds and distributing moneys to applicants established in Sections 5849.7, 5849.8, and 5849.9 and the ongoing monitoring and enforcement of the applicants’ activities pursuant to Sections 5849.8, 5849.9, and 5849.11.
(1) “Competitive program” means that portion of the program established by Section 5849.8.
(2) “Distribution program” means that portion of the program described in Section 5849.9.
(m) “Target population” means individuals or households as provided in Section 5600.3 who are homeless, chronically homeless, or at risk of chronic homelessness.
r1 score is: 
0.1144038594073053
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law, the Barbering and Cosmetology Act, establishes the State Board of Barbering and Cosmetology for the licensure and regulation of barbers, cosmetologists, estheticians, manicurists, electrologists, and apprentices. Existing law requires the board to carry out a list of duties, including making rules and regulations, conducting and administering license examinations, issuing licenses to qualified applicants, and disciplining persons who violate the act.
This bill would require that the board offer and make available all written materials provided to licensees and applicants in English, Korean, Spanish, and Vietnamese.
Existing law requires the board to establish a Health and Safety Advisory Committee to provide the board with advice and recommendations on health and safety issues before the board.
This bill would specify that the health and safety issues are those that impact licensees, including how to ensure licensees are aware of basic labor laws, as specified.
Existing law requires every application for admission to examination and licensure to be verified by the oath of the applicant.
This bill would additionally require every application for admission to examination and licensure and every electronic application to renew a license to include a signed acknowledgment that the applicant understands his or her rights as a licensee as outlined in informational materials on basic labor laws that the applicant is provided by the board with the application or renewal application.
Existing law requires the licensure of any person, firm, or corporation operating an establishment engaged in a practice regulated by the board. Existing law requires a separate license for each location where the establishment operates. Existing law requires applicants to submit an application, accompanied by a prescribed fee. Existing law prohibits the board from issuing a license to any applicant who has committed specified acts or crimes which are grounds for denial of licensure in effect at the time the new application is submitted.
This bill would require, as part of a complete application for a license to operate an establishment, and an electronic application to renew a license to operate an establishment, a signed acknowledgment that the applicant understands the informational materials on basic labor laws the applicant is provided by the board with the application or renewal application and that establishments are responsible for compliance with any applicable labor laws of the state.
Existing law requires the board to keep a registration record of each licensee containing the name, address, license number, date issued, and any facts that the applicant may have stated in the application for examination for licensure.
This bill would require the board to collect, through optional questions on a written application for a license and in an electronic application to renew a license, the language preference of the applicant.
Existing law requires the board to admit to a licensing examination an applicant who meets certain qualifications, including having completed one or more courses, as specified, offered by a school approved by the board. Existing law requires the board to develop or adopt a health and safety course on hazardous substances that is required to be taught in schools approved by the board. Existing law requires course development to include pilot testing of the course and training classes to prepare instructors to effectively use the course.
This bill would require the health and safety course that the board is required to develop or adopt to additionally cover basic labor laws, as specified.
This bill’s provisions would become operative on July 1, 2017.
produced summary is: 
The rules shall be adopted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Title 2 of the Government Code, and shall be submitted to the State Department of Public Health and approved by that department prior to filing with the Secretary of State. The amendments made to this chapter by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017. This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 7312 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7312.
(a) The board shall do all of the following:
(1) Make rules and regulations in aid or furtherance of this chapter in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act.
(2) Conduct and administer examinations of applicants for licensure.
(3) Issue licenses to those applicants that may be entitled thereto.
(4) Discipline persons who have been determined to be in violation of this chapter or the regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(5) Adopt rules governing sanitary conditions and precautions to be employed as are reasonably necessary to protect the public health and safety in establishments, schools approved by the board, and in the practice of any profession provided for in this chapter. The rules shall be adopted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Title 2 of the Government Code, and shall be submitted to the State Department of Public Health and approved by that department prior to filing with the Secretary of State. A written copy of all those rules shall be furnished to each licensee.
(6) Offer and make available all written materials provided to licensees and applicants in English, Korean, Spanish, and Vietnamese.
(b) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
SEC. 2.
Section 7314 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7314.
(a) The board shall keep a record of its proceedings relating to its public meetings, meetings of committees, and records relating to the issuance, refusal, renewal, suspension, and revocation of licenses.
(b) The board shall keep a registration record of each licensee containing the name, address, license number, and date issued. This record shall also contain any facts that the applicants may have stated in their application for examination for licensure. The board shall collect, through optional questions on a written application for a license and in an electronic application to renew a license issued pursuant to this chapter, the spoken and written language preference of each applicant.
(c) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
SEC. 3.
Section 7314.3 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7314.3.
(a) The board shall establish a Health and Safety Advisory Committee to provide the board with advice and recommendations on health and safety issues before the board that impact licensees, including how to ensure licensees are aware of basic labor laws. Basic labor laws include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
(1) Key differences between the legal rights, benefits, and obligations of an employee and an independent contractor.
(2) Wage and hour rights for hourly employees.
(3) Antidiscrimination laws relating to the use of a particular language in the workplace.
(4) Antiretaliation laws relating to a worker’s right to file complaints with the Department of Industrial Relations.
(5) How to obtain more information about state and federal labor laws.
(b) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
SEC. 4.
Section 7337 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7337.
(a) Every application for admission to examination and licensure shall be in writing, on forms prepared and furnished by the board.
(b) Each application shall be accompanied by the required fee, and shall contain proof of the qualifications of the applicant for examination and licensure. It shall be verified by the oath of the applicant and shall include a signed acknowledgment that the applicant understands his or her rights as a licensee as outlined in informational materials on basic labor laws, as specified in Section 7314.3, that the applicant is provided by the board with the application. Every applicant shall, as a condition of admittance to the examination facility, present satisfactory proof of identification. Satisfactory proof of identification shall be in the form of a valid, unexpired driver’s license or identification card, containing the photograph of the person to whom it was issued, issued by any state, federal, or other government entity.
(c) Every electronic application to renew a license shall include a signed acknowledgment that the renewal applicant understands his or her rights as a licensee as outlined in informational materials on basic labor laws, as specified in Section 7314.3, that the renewal applicant is provided by the board with the renewal application.
(d) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
SEC. 5.
Section 7347 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7347.
(a) Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to operate an establishment shall make an application to the bureau for a license accompanied by the fee prescribed by this chapter. The application shall be required whether the person, firm, or corporation is operating a new establishment or obtaining ownership of an existing establishment. The application shall include a signed acknowledgment that the applicant understands that establishments are responsible for compliance with any applicable labor laws of the state and that the applicant understands the informational materials on basic labor laws, as specified in Section 7314.3, the applicant is provided by the board with the application. Every electronic application to renew a license shall include a signed acknowledgment that the renewal applicant understands that establishments are responsible for compliance with any applicable labor laws of the state and that the applicant understands the informational materials on basic labor laws, as specified in Section 7314.3, that the renewal applicant is provided by the board with the renewal application. If the applicant is obtaining ownership of an existing establishment, the board may establish the fee in an amount less than the fee prescribed by this chapter. The applicant, if an individual, or each officer, director, and partner, if the applicant is other than an individual, shall not have committed acts or crimes which are grounds for denial of licensure in effect at the time the new application is submitted pursuant to Section 480. A license issued pursuant to this section shall authorize the operation of the establishment only at the location for which the license is issued. Operation of the establishment at any other location shall be unlawful unless a license for the new location has been obtained upon compliance with this section, applicable to the issuance of a license in the first instance.
(b) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
SEC. 6.
Section 7389 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
7389.
(a) The board shall develop or adopt a health and safety course on hazardous substances and basic labor laws, as specified in Section 7314.3, which shall be taught in schools approved by the board. Course development shall include pilot testing of the course and training classes to prepare instructors to effectively use the course.
(b) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2017.
r1 score is: 
0.1554878048780487
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large finetuned on 10 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
The Budget Act of 2016 made appropriations for the support of state government for the 2016–17 fiscal year.
This bill would amend the Budget Act of 2016 by revising items of appropriation and making other changes.
This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
The Budget Act of 2016 appropriated specified amounts for the support of state government for the 2016–17 fiscal year. This bill would amend the Budget Act of 2016 by adding and amending items of appropriation. This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a Budget Bill. This bill would express the intent of the Legislature to enact statutory changes relating to the Budget Act of 2016.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Item 2240-101-6082 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2016 is amended to read:
2240-101-6082—For local assistance, Department of Housing and Community Development, payable from the Housing for Veterans Fund ........................
75,000,000
Schedule:
(1)
1665-Financial Assistance Program ........................
75,000,000
Provisions:
1.
The Director of Finance may authorize an increase in this appropriation, up to the total amount of proceeds available pursuant to the Veterans Housing and Homeless Prevention Bond Act of 2014. Any approved increase shall correspond to the level of awards anticipated by the Department of Housing and Community Development. An approval of an augmentation may be authorized not sooner than 30 days after notification is provided in writing to the Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee and the chairpersons of the committees in each house of the Legislature that consider appropriations.
2.
Notwithstanding Section 16304.1 of the Government Code, funds appropriated in this item shall be available for liquidation of encumbrances until June 30, 2022. The Director of Finance may authorize an extension of the liquidation period if it is determined that an extension is needed to facilitate a project’s completion. An approval may be authorized not sooner than 30 days after notification is provided in writing to the Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee and the chairpersons of the committees in each house of the Legislature that consider appropriations.
3.
Of the funds appropriated in this item, $10,000,000 shall be made available by the Department of Housing and Community Development, in consultation with the Department of Veterans Affairs, for loans to counties or private nonprofit organizations, or both, for the construction or rehabilitation of transitional housing or shelter facilitates that provide services for homeless veterans. The Department of Housing and Community Development shall include in the guidelines priority for applicants that demonstrate need and focus on long-term solutions, including funding for mental health and addiction treatment services, as well as having proven long-term effectiveness.
SEC. 2.
Item 2240-105-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2016 is amended to read:
2240-105-0001—For transfer by the Controller to the Emergency Housing and Assistance Fund ........................
45,000,000
Provisions:
1.
The funds transferred by this item shall be used for support costs and local assistance associated with administering the California Emergency Solutions Grant Program as set forth in Chapter 19 (commencing with Section 50899.1) of Part 2 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.
2.
Of the funds appropriated in this item, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Office of Emergency Services for the Homeless Youth Emergency Service Pilot Projects as set forth in Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 13700) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code to fund new pilot projects over five years for the County of Orange, the County of Fresno, the County of San Bernardino, and the County of El Dorado.
SEC. 3.
Item 4260-001-3085 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2016 is amended to read:
4260-001-3085—For support of Department of Health Care Services, payable from the Mental Health Services Fund ........................
13,620,000
Schedule:
(1)
3960-Health Care Services ........................
13,620,000
Provisions:
1.
Funds appropriated in this item are in lieu of the amounts that otherwise would have been appropriated for administration pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 5892 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
2.
Of the funds appropriated in this item, $4,000,000 is available for encumbrance or expenditure until June 30, 2019, to support suicide hotlines throughout the state only if the Department of Finance determines that funds are available from the amounts allocated for state administration of the Mental Health Services Fund pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 5892 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. These funds shall not be released sooner than 30 days after the Department of Finance provides notification of the availability of funds in writing to the chairpersons of the committees in each house of the Legislature that consider appropriations, the chairpersons of the committees in each house of the Legislature that consider the State Budget, and the Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee.
SEC. 4.
Section 39.00 of the Budget Act of 2016 is amended to read:
SEC. 39.00.
The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the following bills are other bills providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill within the meaning of subdivision (e) of Section 12 of Article IV of the California Constitution: AB 1600, AB 1601, AB 1602, AB 1603, AB 1604, AB 1605, AB 1606, AB 1607, AB 1608, AB 1609, AB 1610, AB 1611, AB 1612, AB 1613, AB 1614, AB 1615, AB 1616, AB 1617, AB 1618, AB 1619, AB 1620, AB 1621, AB 1623, SB 828, SB 829, SB 830, SB 831, SB 832, SB 833, SB 834, SB 835, SB 836, SB 837, SB 838, SB 839, SB 840, SB 841, SB 842, SB 843, SB 844, SB 845, SB 846, SB 847, SB 848, SB 849, SB 850, SB 851, and SB 852.
SEC. 5.
This act is a Budget Bill within the meaning of subdivision (e) of Section 12 of Article IV of the California Constitution and shall take effect immediately.
r1 score is: 
0.7804878048780487
==================================
target summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. PEPRA exempts from its provisions certain public employees whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law until a specified federal district court decision on a certification by the United States Secretary of Labor, or until January 1, 2016, whichever is sooner.
This bill would extend indefinitely that exemption for those public employees, whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
The bill would exempt these employees from PEPRA without regard to date of hire upon issuance of a specified federal district court decision.
produced summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. Existing law, the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, generally authorizes 2 or more public agencies, by agreement, to jointly exercise any common power, which may include hiring employees and establishing retirement systems. PEPRA authorizes a joint powers authority formed by the Cities of Brea and Fullerton on or after January
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 7522.02 of the Government Code is amended to read:
7522.02.
(a) (1) Notwithstanding any other law, except as provided in this article, on and after January 1, 2013, this article shall apply to all state and local public retirement systems and to their participating employers, including the Public Employees’ Retirement System, the State Teachers’ Retirement System, the Legislators’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System II, county and district retirement systems created pursuant to the County Employees Retirement Law of 1937 (Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3), independent public retirement systems, and to individual retirement plans offered by public employers. However, this article shall be subject to the Internal Revenue Code and Section 17 of Article XVI of the California Constitution. The administration of the requirements of this article shall comply with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to the entities described in Section 9 of Article IX of, and Sections 4 and 5 of Article XI of, the California Constitution, except to the extent that these entities continue to be participating employers in any retirement system governed by state statute. Accordingly, any retirement plan approved before January 1, 2013, by the voters of any entity excluded from coverage by this section shall not be affected by this article.
(3)
(A)
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
(B) If a federal district court upholds the determination of the United States Secretary of Labor, or his or her designee, that application of this article precludes him or her from providing a certification under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code, this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under that section.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a multiemployer plan authorized by Section 302(c)(5) of the federal Taft-Hartley Act (29 U.S.C. Sec. 186(c)(5)) if the public employer began participation in that plan prior to January 1, 2013, and the plan is regulated by the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 et seq.).
(b) The benefit plan required by this article shall apply to public employees who are new members as defined in Section 7522.04.
(c) (1) Individuals who were employed by any public employer before January 1, 2013, and who became employed by a subsequent public employer for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, shall be subject to the retirement plan that would have been available to employees of the subsequent employer who were first employed by the subsequent employer on or before December 31, 2012, if the individual was subject to concurrent membership for which creditable service was performed in the previous six months or reciprocity established under any of the following provisions:
(A) Article 5 (commencing with Section 20350) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2.
(B) Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3.
(C) Any agreement between public retirement systems to provide reciprocity to members of the systems.
(D) Section 22115.2 of the Education Code.
(2) An individual who was employed before January 1, 2013, and who, without a separation from employment, changed employment positions and became subject to a different defined benefit plan in a different public retirement system offered by his or her employer shall be subject to that defined benefit plan as it would have been available to employees who were first employed on or before December 31, 2012.
(d) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a defined benefit pension plan that provides a defined benefit formula with a lower benefit factor at normal retirement age and results in a lower normal cost than the defined benefit formula required by this article, that employer may continue to offer that defined benefit formula instead of the defined benefit formula required by this article, and shall not be subject to the requirements of Section 7522.10 for pensionable compensation subject to that formula. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the retirement board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the defined benefit plan may only participate in the lower cost defined benefit formula that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article or is approved by the Legislature as provided in this subdivision.
(e) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a retirement benefit plan that consists solely of a defined contribution plan, that employer may continue to offer that plan instead of the defined benefit pension plan required by this article. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit pension plan or defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that plan or formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the system’s board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the employer’s plan may only participate in the defined contribution plan that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined contribution plan or defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article. This subdivision shall not be construed to prohibit an employer from offering a defined contribution plan on or after January 1, 2013, either with or without a defined benefit plan, whether or not the employer offered a defined contribution plan prior to that date.
(f) (1) If, on or after January 1, 2013, the Cities of Brea and Fullerton form a joint powers authority pursuant to the provisions of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act (Article 1 (commencing with Section 6500) of Chapter 5), that joint powers authority may provide employees the defined benefit plan or formula that those employees received from their respective employers prior to the exercise of a common power, to which the employee is associated, by the joint powers authority to any employee of the City of Brea, the City of Fullerton, or a city described in paragraph (2) who is not a new member and subsequently is employed by the joint powers authority within 180 days of the city providing for the exercise of a common power, to which the employee was associated, by the joint powers authority.
(2) On or before January 1, 2017, a city in Orange County that is contiguous to the City of Brea or the City of Fullerton may join the joint powers authority described in paragraph (1) but not more than three cities shall be permitted to join.
(3) The formation of a joint powers authority on or after January 1, 2013, shall not act in a manner as to exempt a new employee or a new member, as defined by Section 7522.04, from the requirements of this article. New members may only participate in a defined benefit plan or formula that conforms to the requirements of this article.
(g) The Judges’ Retirement System and the Judges’ Retirement System II shall not be required to adopt the defined benefit formula required by Section 7522.20 or 7522.25 or the compensation limitations defined in Section 7522.10.
(h) This article shall not be construed to provide membership in any public retirement system for an individual who would not otherwise be eligible for membership under that system’s applicable rules or laws.
(i) On and after January 1, 2013, each public retirement system shall modify its plan or plans to comply with the requirements of this article and may adopt regulations or resolutions for this purpose.
r1 score is: 
0.5693950177935944
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires that, except as specified, not less than the general prevailing rate of per diem wages, determined by the Director of Industrial Relations, be paid to workers employed on public works projects. Under existing law, an apprentice employed upon public works is required to be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and to be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered, as specified.
This bill would require, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice to perform work on a public works project and requires compliance with certain preemployment activities as a condition of employment, as specified, that the apprentice be paid the prevailing rate for the time spent on any required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the activity, if any, except as specified.
Because this bill would expand the application of the prevailing wage requirements, the violation of which is a crime, it would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
(1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered. (2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
1777.5.
(a) This chapter does not prevent the employment of properly registered apprentices upon public works.
(b) (1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered.
(2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the required activity, if any, at the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered. Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, a contractor is not required to compensate an apprentice for the time spent on preemployment activities if the apprentice is required to take a preemployment drug or alcohol test and he or she fails to pass that test.
(c) Only apprentices, as defined in Section 3077, who are in training under apprenticeship standards that have been approved by the Chief of the Division of Apprenticeship Standards and who are parties to written apprentice agreements under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3070) of Division 3 are eligible to be employed at the apprentice wage rate on public works. The employment and training of each apprentice shall be in accordance with either of the following:
(1) The apprenticeship standards and apprentice agreements under which he or she is training.
(2) The rules and regulations of the California Apprenticeship Council.
(d) If the contractor to whom the contract is awarded by the state or any political subdivision, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs workers in any apprenticeable craft or trade, the contractor shall employ apprentices in at least the ratio set forth in this section and may apply to any apprenticeship program in the craft or trade that can provide apprentices to the site of the public work for a certificate approving the contractor under the apprenticeship standards for the employment and training of apprentices in the area or industry affected. However, the decision of the apprenticeship program to approve or deny a certificate shall be subject to review by the Administrator of Apprenticeship. The apprenticeship program or programs, upon approving the contractor, shall arrange for the dispatch of apprentices to the contractor. A contractor covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards shall not be required to submit any additional application in order to include additional public works contracts under that program. “Apprenticeable craft or trade,” as used in this section, means a craft or trade determined as an apprenticeable occupation in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the California Apprenticeship Council. As used in this section, “contractor” includes any subcontractor under a contractor who performs any public works not excluded by subdivision (o).
(e) Before commencing work on a contract for public works, every contractor shall submit contract award information to an applicable apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public work. The information submitted shall include an estimate of journeyman hours to be performed under the contract, the number of apprentices proposed to be employed, and the approximate dates the apprentices would be employed. A copy of this information shall also be submitted to the awarding body, if requested by the awarding body. Within 60 days after concluding work on the contract, each contractor and subcontractor shall submit to the awarding body, if requested, and to the apprenticeship program a verified statement of the journeyman and apprentice hours performed on the contract. The information under this subdivision shall be public. The apprenticeship programs shall retain this information for 12 months.
(f) The apprenticeship program supplying apprentices to the area of the site of the public work shall ensure equal employment and affirmative action in apprenticeship for women and minorities.
(g) The ratio of work performed by apprentices to journeymen employed in a particular craft or trade on the public work may be no higher than the ratio stipulated in the apprenticeship standards under which the apprenticeship program operates if the contractor agrees to be bound by those standards. However, except as otherwise provided in this section, in no case shall the ratio be less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of journeyman work.
(h) This ratio of apprentice work to journeyman work shall apply during any day or portion of a day when any journeyman is employed at the jobsite and shall be computed on the basis of the hours worked during the day by journeymen so employed. Any work performed by a journeyman in excess of eight hours per day or 40 hours per week shall not be used to calculate the ratio. The contractor shall employ apprentices for the number of hours computed as above before the end of the contract or, in the case of a subcontractor, before the end of the subcontract. However, the contractor shall endeavor, to the greatest extent possible, to employ apprentices during the same time period that the journeymen in the same craft or trade are employed at the jobsite. When an hourly apprenticeship ratio is not feasible for a particular craft or trade, the Administrator of Apprenticeship, upon application of an apprenticeship program, may order a minimum ratio of not less than one apprentice for each five journeymen in a craft or trade classification.
(i) A contractor covered by this section who has agreed to be covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards upon the issuance of the approval certificate, or who has been previously approved for an apprenticeship program in the craft or trade, shall employ the number of apprentices or the ratio of apprentices to journeymen stipulated in the applicable apprenticeship standards, but in no event less than the 1-to-5 ratio required by subdivision (g).
(j) Upon proper showing by a contractor that he or she employs apprentices in a particular craft or trade in the state on all of his or her contracts on an annual average of not less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of labor performed by journeymen, the Administrator of Apprenticeship may grant a certificate exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 hourly ratio, as set forth in this section for that craft or trade.
(k) An apprenticeship program has the discretion to grant to a participating contractor or contractor association a certificate, which shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator of Apprenticeship, exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 ratio set forth in this section when it finds that any one of the following conditions is met:
(1) Unemployment for the previous three-month period in the area exceeds an average of 15 percent.
(2) The number of apprentices in training in the area exceeds a ratio of 1 to 5.
(3) There is a showing that the apprenticeable craft or trade is replacing at least one-thirtieth of its journeymen annually through apprenticeship training, either on a statewide basis or on a local basis.
(4) Assignment of an apprentice to any work performed under a public works contract would create a condition that would jeopardize his or her life or the life, safety, or property of fellow employees or the public at large, or the specific task to which the apprentice is to be assigned is of a nature that training cannot be provided by a journeyman.
(l) If an exemption is granted pursuant to subdivision (k) to an organization that represents contractors in a specific trade from the 1-to-5 ratio on a local or statewide basis, the member contractors shall not be required to submit individual applications for approval to local joint apprenticeship committees, if they are already covered by the local apprenticeship standards.
(m) (1) A contractor to whom a contract is awarded, who, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs journeymen or apprentices in any apprenticeable craft or trade shall contribute to the California Apprenticeship Council the same amount that the director determines is the prevailing amount of apprenticeship training contributions in the area of the public works site. A contractor may take as a credit for payments to the council any amounts paid by the contractor to an approved apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public works project. The contractor may add the amount of the contributions in computing his or her bid for the contract.
(2) At the conclusion of the 2002–03 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the California Apprenticeship Council shall distribute training contributions received by the council under this subdivision, less the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for administering this subdivision, by making grants to approved apprenticeship programs for the purpose of training apprentices. The funds shall be distributed as follows:
(A) If there is an approved multiemployer apprenticeship program serving the same craft or trade and geographic area for which the training contributions were made to the council, a grant to that program shall be made.
(B) If there are two or more approved multiemployer apprenticeship programs serving the same craft or trade and county for which the training contributions were made to the council, the grant shall be divided among those programs based on the number of apprentices from that county registered in each program.
(C) All training contributions not distributed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be used to defray the future expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for the administration and enforcement of apprenticeship standards and requirements under this code.
(3) All training contributions received pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury. Upon appropriation by the Legislature, all moneys in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund shall be used for the purpose of carrying out this subdivision and to pay the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations.
(n) The body awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted in the contract stipulations to effectuate this section. The stipulations shall fix the responsibility of compliance with this section for all apprenticeable occupations with the prime contractor.
(o) This section does not apply to contracts of general contractors or to contracts of specialty contractors not bidding for work through a general or prime contractor when the contracts of general contractors or those specialty contractors involve less than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).
(p) An awarding body that implements an approved labor compliance program in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 1771.5 may, with the approval of the director, assist in the enforcement of this section under the terms and conditions prescribed by the director.
SEC. 2.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.5380116959064327
==================================
