Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large finetuned on 10 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
(1) The Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), an initiative measure enacted by the voters as Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, imposes a 1% tax on that portion of a taxpayer’s taxable income that exceeds $1,000,000 and requires that the revenue from that tax be deposited in the Mental Health Services Fund to fund various county mental health programs. The MHSA authorizes the Legislature to amend its provisions by a
2/3
vote, provided that the amendment is consistent with and furthers the intent of the act.
Existing law, known as the No Place Like Home Program, requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to award $2,000,000,000 among counties to finance capital costs, including, but not limited to, acquisition, design, construction, rehabilitation, or preservation, and to capitalize operating reserves, of permanent supportive housing for the target population, as specified. Existing law requires the department to distribute $1,800,000,000 through a competitive program and to allocate $200,000,000 among all counties within this state on an “over-the-counter” population basis.
The bill would authorize the California Health Facilities Financing Authority and the department to, among other things, enter into contracts to provide services pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program related to permanent supportive housing. The bill would also authorize the authority to issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for these purposes and to make secured or unsecured loans to the department in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would require that the dollar limit on amounts distributed under the No Place Like Home Program be based on the principal amount of bonds issued by the authority and loaned to the department.
The bill would additionally authorize the use of moneys in the Mental Health Services Fund for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also establish and continuously appropriate the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount in the Mental Health Services Fund. The bill would require the Controller, no later than the last day of each month and prior to any transfer or expenditure from the fund for any other purpose for the following month, to transfer from the Mental Health Services Fund to the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount an amount necessary to cover the costs the authority is required to pay to the department pursuant to an above-described service contract, as determined by the authority but not to exceed an aggregate amount of $140,000,000 per year. The bill would prohibit moneys in the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount from being loaned to the General Fund pursuant to specified statutes.
The bill would exempt service contracts between the department and the authority pursuant to these provisions from specified public contracting laws. The bill would also exempt loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority from any other law applicable to the execution of those agreements or issuance of those bonds, including the California Environmental Quality Act.
(2) Existing law establishes the No Place Like Home Fund and continuously appropriates the moneys in this fund to the Department of Housing and Community Development for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the deposit into the fund of, among other moneys, any proceeds from the issuance of bonds by the Treasurer.
This bill would instead require the department to deposit into the fund the proceeds of loans derived from the issuance of bonds under this bill by the California Health Facilities Financing Authority. The bill would additionally continuously appropriate moneys in the fund to the Treasurer and the authority for purposes of the No Place Like Home Program.
(3) Existing law requires counties to annually report specified information to the Department of Housing and Community Development on activities funded under the No Place Like Home Program, including information on the funded supportive housing development. Existing law also requires the department to report specified information on the program to the Legislature by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect.
This bill would require the department to monitor county compliance with applicable program regulations, loan agreements and regulatory agreements and any agreements related to the program that designate the department as a 3rd party beneficiary, and enforce those agreements to the extent necessary and desirable in order to provide, to the greatest degree possible, the successful provision of permanent supportive housing. The bill would require the department to submit a report to the California Health Facilities Financing Authority by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect, that contains specified information about the counties participating in the program and the services that have been provided pursuant to any service contracts between the department and the authority, as described above.
(4) Existing law establishes a procedure by which a public agency may bring an action in the superior court to determine the validity of any matter authorized by other law. Existing law authorizes an action under this procedure to determine the legality of any action by the Department of Housing and Community Development related to the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the department to issue its first request for proposal for the competitive program no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds within 60 days, after the deadline for appeals under the validation procedure.
This bill would recast this authorization to instead authorize an action to determine the validity of any service contract or loan agreement between the department and the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, as described above, in accordance with specified provisions governing actions to determine the validity of bonds, warrants, contracts, obligations, or evidences of indebtedness. The bill would instead require the department to issue its first request for proposal no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds as soon as reasonably practical, but no later than 150 days, after the effective date of a final judgment with no further opportunity for appeals, in any court proceeding affirming the validity of the service contracts between the department and the authority and any bonds issued by the authority.
(5) Existing law authorizes the Department of Finance to authorize a loan from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund for cashflow purposes in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. Existing law requires that a loan comply with certain requirements, including that the purpose of the loan is to allow the department to begin implementation activities related to the No Place Like Home Program, including drafting program guidelines and regulations.
This bill would instead authorize the Department of Finance to authorize one or more loans from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The bill would additionally authorize loans for the purpose of allowing the Department of Housing and Community Development, the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, and the Treasurer to implement the above-described provisions pertaining to service contracts and loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority.
(6) Existing law makes various findings and declarations regarding the No Place Like Home Program.
This bill would make additional findings and declarations pertaining to the financing and implementation of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also make various technical and conforming changes to the No Place Like Home Program.
(7) This bill would declare that its provisions further the intent of the MHSA.
(8) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code provides that the authority may make secured or unsecured loans to the Department of Housing and Community Development in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program or to refund bonds previously issued pursuant to this section, in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 15463 is added to the Government Code, to read:
15463.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “No Place Like Home Program” has the same meaning as “program” as defined in Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “No Place Like Home Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(3) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(b) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(c) The authority may provide for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of redeeming, refunding, or retiring any bonds or any series or issue of bonds then outstanding issued under subdivision (b), including the payment of any redemption premium thereon and any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of redemption, purchase, or maturity of the bonds. Subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 15446 apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision. Sections 15441 to 15445, inclusive, and Sections 15447 to 15450, inclusive, apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision in the same manner and to the same extent as bonds issued under subdivision (b).
(d) The authority may make secured or unsecured loans to the Department of Housing and Community Development in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program or to refund bonds previously issued pursuant to this section, in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development. Loan proceeds may also be used to fund reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement and liquidity costs, expenses of funding, financing, and refinancing, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(e) Each of the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development may enter into any agreement for credit enhancement or liquidity, execute any instruments, and do any other acts it deems necessary, convenient, or desirable in connection with revenue bonds issued pursuant to this section or carry out any power expressly granted pursuant to this section.
(f) (1) This section provides a complete, additional, and alternative method for performing the acts authorized by this section and shall be construed as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws; provided, however, that the issuance of the bonds and refunding bonds and the execution of any agreements under this section are not subject to, and need not comply with, the requirements of any other law applicable to the issuance of those bonds or refunding bonds and the execution of those agreements, including, but not limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), funding or financing under this section shall not exempt the permanent supportive housing from the requirements of any other law otherwise applicable to the permanent supportive housing.
SEC. 2.
Section 5849.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
5849.1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares that this part is consistent with and furthers the purposes of the Mental Health Services Act, enacted by Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, within the meaning of Section 18 of that measure.
(b) The Legislature further finds and declares all of the following:
(1) Housing is a key factor for stabilization and recovery to occur and results in improved outcomes for individuals living with a mental illness.
(2) Untreated mental illness can increase the risk of homelessness, especially for single adults.
(3) California has the nation’s largest homeless population that is disproportionally comprised of women with children, veterans, and the chronically homeless.
(4) California has the largest number of homeless veterans in the United States at 24 percent of the total population in our nation. Fifty percent of California’s veterans live with serious mental illness and 70 percent have a substance use disorder.
(5) Fifty percent of mothers experiencing homelessness have experienced a major depressive episode since becoming homeless and 36 percent of these mothers live with post-traumatic stress disorder and 41 percent have a substance use disorder.
(6) Ninety-three percent of supportive housing tenants who live with mental illness and substance use disorders voluntarily participated in the services offered.
(7) Adults who receive 2 years of “whatever-it-takes,” or Full Service Partnership services, experience a 68 percent reduction in homelessness.
(8) For every dollar of bond funds invested in permanent supportive housing, the state and local governments can leverage a significant amount of additional dollars through tax credits, Medicaid health services funding, and other housing development funds.
(9) Tenants of permanent supportive housing reduced their visits to the emergency department by 56 percent, and their hospital admissions by 45 percent.
(10) The cost in public services for a chronically homeless Californian ranges from $60,000 to $100,000 annually. When housed, these costs are cut in half and some reports show reductions in cost of more than 70 percent, including potentially less involvement with the health and criminal justice systems.
(11) Californians have identified homelessness as their top tier priority; this measure seeks to address the needs of the most vulnerable people within this population.
(12) Having counties provide mental health programming and services is a benefit to the state.
(13) The Department of Housing and Community Development is the state entity with sufficient expertise to implement and oversee a grant or loan program for permanent supportive housing of the target population.
(14) The California Health Facilities Financing Authority is authorized by law to issue bonds and to consult with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the State Department of Health Care Services concerning the implementation of a grant or loan program for California counties to support the development of programs that increase access to, and capacity for, crisis mental health services. It is therefore appropriate for the authority to issue bonds and contract for services with the Department of Housing and Community Development to provide grants or loans to California counties for permanent supportive housing for the target population.
(15) Use of bond funding will accelerate the availability of funding for the grant or loan program to provide permanent supportive housing for the target population as compared to relying on annual allocations from the Mental Health Services Fund and better allow counties to provide permanent supportive housing for homeless individuals living with mental illness.
(16) The findings and declarations set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 5849.35 are hereby incorporated herein.
SEC. 3.
Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Instiace Like Home Program Advisory Committee established pursuant to Section 5849.3.
(f) “County” includes, but is not limited to, a city and county, and a city receiving funds pursuant to Section 5701.5.
(g) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.
(h) “Development sponsor” has the same meaning as “sponsor” as defined in Section 50675.2 of the Health and Safety Code.
(i) “Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4.
(j) “Homeless” has the same meaning as defined in Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as that section read on May 1, 2016.
(k) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing,” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(l) “Program” means the process for awarding funds and distributing moneys to applicants established in Sections 5849.7, 5849.8, and 5849.9 and the ongoing monitoring and enforcement of the applicants’ activities pursuant to Sections 5849.8, 5849.9, and 5849.11.
(1) “Competitive program” means that portion of the program established by Section 5849.8.
(2) “Distribution program” means that portion of the program described in Section 5849.9.
(m) “Target population” means individuals or households as provided in Section 5600.3 who are homeless, chronically homeless, or at risk of chronic homelessness.
r1 score is: 
0.1220850480109739
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law requires the State Air Resources Board to adopt airborne toxic control measures to reduce emissions of toxic air contaminants from nonvehicular sources. Existing law prescribes civil penalties for violations of specified air pollution control laws, rules, regulations, permits, or orders of the State Air Resources Board or of an air pollution control district or air quality management district.
This bill would require an owner or operator of an oil refinery that uses hydrogen fluoride, hydrofluoric acid, or modified hydrofluoric acid in its operations to send out biannual notices to each business, school, child care facility, library, church, community facility, senior facility, and residence within a 3.5-mile radius of the refinery, as specified. The bill would require the cost of the notice to be paid by the owner or operator of the refinery. The bill would require the owner or operator to file a copy of the notice and distribution list with the State Air Resources Board. An owner or operator who violates these provisions would be subject to those civil penalties.
(2) Existing law generally regulates the management of hazardous waste. A violation of the hazardous waste control laws is a crime.
This bill would require a business that, at any time, handles, maintains, or stores more than 250 gallons of hydrogen fluoride or hydrofluoric acid to, if possible, convert to a known, significantly less hazardous substitute by January 1, 2017. If that conversion is not possible and the business is located within 2 miles of a residential dwelling, the bill would require the business to cease handling, maintaining, or storing hydrogen fluoride and hydrofluoric acid by January 1, 2017. Because a violation of these requirements would be a crime, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
(3) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
(4) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.
produced summary is: 
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: (a) Modified hydrofluoric acid, a solution of hydrogen fluoride and water, is used by two refineries in California to manufacture high octane gasoline. (b) According to the United States Chemical Safety Board, “Hydrofluoric acid is one of the most hazardous and deadly chemicals used in petroleum refining.” (c) In February 2015, an explosion at the Exxon Mobil Torrance refinery blanketed nearby neighborhoods with catalyst dust and felt like a 1.7 magnitude earthquake. Breathing in hydrogen fluoride at high levels or in combination with skin contact can cause death from an irregular heartbeat or from fluid buildup in the lungs.” (f) People who survive after being severely injured by breathing in hydrogen fluoride may suffer lingering chronic lung disease or prolonged or permanent visual defects, blindness, or the total destruction of the eye.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) Modified hydrofluoric acid, a solution of hydrogen fluoride and water, is used by two refineries in California to manufacture high octane fuel.
(b) According to the United States Chemical Safety Board, “Hydrofluoric acid is one of the most hazardous and deadly chemicals used in petroleum refining.”
(c) In February 2015, an explosion at the Exxon Mobil Torrance refinery blanketed nearby neighborhoods with catalyst dust and felt like a 1.7 magnitude earthquake. The explosion nearly missed the Torrance refinery’s storage of modified hydrofluoric acid.
(d) Investigations have shown that since 1979 there have been more than 80 incidents at the Torrance refinery involving hydrofluoric acid.
(e) According to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “Hydrogen fluoride gas, even at low levels, can irritate the eyes, nose, and respiratory tract. Breathing in hydrogen fluoride at high levels or in combination with skin contact can cause death from an irregular heartbeat or from fluid buildup in the lungs.”
(f) People who survive after being severely injured by breathing in hydrogen fluoride may suffer lingering chronic lung disease or prolonged or permanent visual defects, blindness, or the total destruction of the eye.
(g) Residents in southern California have tried to ban the use of hydrofluoric acid at refineries for more than 25 years.
(h) Previous attempts to ban hydrofluoric acid at refineries in California have ended in litigation. Notably, in 1991, Ultramar, the then-operator of the Wilmington refinery sued the South Coast Air Quality Management District after the district adopted a rule phasing out the use of hydrofluoric acid.
(i) Today, 616,000 residents in California live within 3.5 miles of refineries that combined store more than 60,000 lbs of modified hydrofluoric acid.
(j) Article I of the California Constitution declares, “All people are by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights. Among these are enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.”
(k) Even in its modified form, hydrofluoric acid could kill more than 500,000 Californians at any moment, causing a threat to property and safety.
SEC. 2.
Article 11.3 (commencing with Section 25240) is added to Chapter 6.5 of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:
Article  11.3. Hydrogen Fluoride
25240.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) Hydrogen fluoride, a highly toxic and highly corrosive mineral acid used in the manufacture of unleaded gasoline and refrigerants, is a harmful and potentially deadly toxic gas.
(b) If released, hydrogen fluoride creates a deadly gas cloud that is toxic to the respiratory system. Inhalation of hydrogen fluoride gas can result in irritation, inflammation, bronchiolar ulceration, pulmonary hemorrhage and edema, and death.
(c) Hydrogen fluoride and hydrofluoric acid pose significantly greater risks than sulfuric acid, an alternative chemical that can be substituted in the manufacture of unleaded gasoline.
(d) An uncontrolled release of hydrogen fluoride would endanger human life and health over an area six times as large as a comparable release of sulfuric acid. A hydrogen fluoride spill that was 90 percent controlled would endanger human life outside of the spill site, while no similar threat would exist from a spill of sulfuric acid. Tests have shown that a worst case spill of liquid hydrogen fluoride or hydrofluoric acid could produce a cloud that could be lethal for five miles downwind. Under normal spill conditions, sulfuric acid does not vaporize to form a dangerous cloud.
(e) Unforeseeable and unpreventable accidental releases of hydrogen fluoride could occur in several instances, including earthquake, mechanical or structural defects in equipment, human error, sabotage, and, in locations with considerable air traffic, aircraft disasters.
(f) The storage, transport, and use of hydrogen fluoride introduces the potential for serious public health risks. Chemical alternatives are available and should be used as an alternative to hydrogen fluoride to reduce the possibility of public endangerment.
25240.2.
(a) A business that, at any time, handles, maintains, or stores more than 250 gallons of hydrogen fluoride, including hydrofluoric acid, shall, if possible, convert to a known, significantly less hazardous substitute by January 1, 2017.
(b) If it is not possible for a business to convert to a known, significantly less hazardous substitute, as specified in subdivision (a), and the business is located within two miles of a residential dwelling, the business shall cease handling, maintaining, or storing hydrogen fluoride and hydrofluoric acid by January 1, 2017.
SEC. 3.
Section 39668.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
39668.5.
(a) An owner or operator of an oil refinery that uses hydrogen fluoride, hydrofluoric acid, or modified hydrofluoric acid in its operations shall send out biannual notices to each business, school, child care facility, library, church, community facility, senior facility, and residence within a three-and-a-half-mile radius of the refinery.
(1) (A) Notice recipients located within a two-mile radius from the refinery shall be warned they may live in a lethal zone.
(B) “Lethal zone” means the area identified in a worst case scenario to expose individuals to ERPG-3 level toxins.
(C) “ERPG-3” is the maximum airborne concentration below which nearly all individuals could be exposed for up to one hour without experiencing or developing life-threatening health effects.
(2) (A) Notice recipients located outside a two-mile radius but within a three-and-a-half-mile radius from the refinery shall be warned they may live in a long-term illness zone.
(B) “Long-term illness zone” means the area identified in a worst case scenario to expose individuals to ERPG-2 level toxins.
(C) “ERPG-2” is the maximum airborne concentration below which nearly all individuals could be exposed for up to one hour without experiencing or developing irreversible or other serious health effects or symptoms which could impair an individual’s ability to take protective action.
(3) Notice recipients located within a three-and-a-half-mile radius from the refinery shall be provided the Internet Web site address of the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Vulnerable Zone Indicator System.
(b) Costs for the notice shall be paid by the owner or operator of the refinery.
(c) The owner or operator shall file a copy of the notice and distribution list with the state board.
SEC. 4.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
SEC. 5.
This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:
In order to address the high risk to the public of exposure to hydrogen fluoride, including hydrofluoric acid, it is necessary this bill take effect immediately.
r1 score is: 
0.2334004024144869
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law with respect to claims against public entities authorizes the “board,” as defined, to assess a surcharge to the state entity against which an approved claim was filed in an amount not to exceed 15% of the claim. Existing law requires the surcharge to be deposited into the General Fund and provides that it may be appropriated in support of the board in the annual Budget Act.
This bill would specify that the Department of General Services may assess this surcharge, would require the surcharge to be deposited into the Service Revolving Fund, and would specify that the surcharge may be appropriated to the department in the annual Budget Act.
Existing law defines a human trafficking caseworker to mean a human trafficking caseworker as defined by the Evidence Code.
This bill would expand that definition to include a human trafficking caseworker who is employed by a homeless services provider that serves homeless children or youth and has completed a minimum of 8 hours of training focused on victims of human trafficking from the Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Center.
Existing law authorizes the State Public Works Board to issue up to $270,000,000 in revenue bonds, notes, or bond anticipation notes to finance the acquisition, design, and construction of approved adult local criminal justice facilities, and authorizes $20,000,000 to be awarded to Napa County.
This bill would require that $20,000,000 of the amount issued by the board in revenue bonds, notes, or bond anticipation notes be awarded to Napa County without the submission by it of any further adult local criminal justice facility proposal. The bill would also authorize those funds to be utilized in conjunction with a partial award made to Napa County pursuant to other specified provisions.
This bill would appropriate $3,000,000 from the Gambling Control Fund to the Department of Justice for the purposes of addressing the backlog in investigations related to cardroom licensing.
This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
(1) The fee shall not apply to the following persons: (A) Persons who are receiving benefits pursuant to the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and State Supplementary Payment (SSP) programs (Article 5 (commencing with Section 12200) of Chapter 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code), the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to Kids Act (CalWORKs) program (Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code), the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP; 7 U.S.C.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 905.2 of the Government Code is amended to read:
905.2.
(a) This section shall apply to claims against the state filed with the Department of General Services except as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
(b) There shall be presented in accordance with this chapter and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) all claims for money or damages against the state:
(1) For which no appropriation has been made or for which no fund is available but the settlement of which has been provided for by statute or constitutional provision.
(2) (A) For which the appropriation made or fund designated is exhausted.
(B) Claims for reissuance of stale, dated, or replacement warrants shall be filed with the state entity that originally issued the warrant and, if allowed, shall be paid from the issuing entity’s current appropriation.
(3) For money or damages on express contract, or for an injury for which the state is liable.
(4) For which settlement is not otherwise provided for by statute or constitutional provision.
(c) Claimants shall pay a filing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) for filing a claim described in subdivision (b), except for claims for reissuance of stale, dated, or replacement warrants as described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b). This fee shall be deposited into the Service Revolving Fund and shall only be available for the support of the Department of General Services upon appropriation by the Legislature.
(1) The fee shall not apply to the following persons:
(A) Persons who are receiving benefits pursuant to the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and State Supplementary Payment (SSP) programs (Article 5 (commencing with Section 12200) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code), the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to Kids Act (CalWORKs) program (Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code), the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP; 7 U.S.C. Sec. 2011 et seq.), or Section 17000 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(B) Persons whose monthly income is 125 percent or less of the current monthly poverty line annually established by the Secretary of California Health and Human Services pursuant to the federal Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (Public Law 97-35), as amended.
(C) Persons who are sentenced to imprisonment in a state prison or confined in a county jail, or who are residents in a state institution and, within 90 days prior to the date the claim is filed, have a balance of one hundred dollars ($100) or less credited to the inmate’s or resident’s trust account. A certified copy of the statement of the account shall be submitted.
(2) Any claimant who requests a fee waiver shall attach to the application a signed affidavit requesting the waiver and verification of benefits or income and any other required financial information in support of the request for the waiver.
(3) Notwithstanding any other law, an applicant shall not be entitled to a hearing regarding the denial of a request for a fee waiver.
(d) The time for the Department of General Services to determine the sufficiency, timeliness, or any other aspect of the claim shall begin when any of the following occur:
(1) The claim is submitted with the filing fee.
(2) The fee waiver is granted.
(3) The filing fee is paid to the department upon the department’s denial of the fee waiver request, so long as payment is received within 10 calendar days of the mailing of the notice of the denial.
(e) Upon approval of the claim by the Department of General Services, the fee shall be reimbursed to the claimant, except that no fee shall be reimbursed if the approved claim was for the payment of an expired warrant. Reimbursement of the filing fee shall be paid by the state entity against which the approved claim was filed. If the claimant was granted a fee waiver pursuant to this section, the amount of the fee shall be paid by the state entity to the department. The reimbursement to the claimant or the payment to the department shall be made at the time the claim is paid by the state entity, or shall be added to the amount appropriated for the claim in an equity claims bill.
(f) The Department of General Services may assess a surcharge to the state entity against which the approved claim was filed in an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the total approved claim. The department shall not include the refunded filing fee in the surcharge calculation. This surcharge shall be deposited into the Service Revolving Fund and may be appropriated in support of the department in the annual Budget Act.
(1) The surcharge shall not apply to approved claims to reissue expired warrants.
(2) Upon the request of the department in a form prescribed by the Controller, the Controller shall transfer the fees from the state entity’s appropriation to the appropriation for the support of the department. However, the department shall not request an amount that shall be submitted for legislative approval pursuant to Section 14659.10.
(g) The filing fee required by subdivision (c) shall apply to all claims filed after June 30, 2004, or the effective date of this statute. The surcharge authorized by subdivision (f) may be calculated and included in claims paid after June 30, 2004, or the effective date of the statute adding this subdivision.
(h) This section shall not apply to claims made for a violation of the California Whistleblower Protection Act (Article 3 (commencing with Section 8547) of Chapter 6.5 of Division 1 of Title 2).
SEC. 2.
Section 8590.6 of the Government Code is amended to read:
8590.6.
For the purposes of this article:
(a) “Comprehensive services” means primary services that include all of the following:
(1) Shelter or established referral services for shelter on a 24 hours a day, seven days a week, basis.
(2) A 24 hours a day, seven days a week, telephone hotline for crisis calls.
(3) Temporary housing and food facilities.
(4) Psychological support and peer counseling provided in accordance with Section 1038.2 of the Evidence Code.
(5) Referrals to existing services in the community.
(6) Emergency transportation, as feasible.
(b) “Director” means the Director of the Office of Emergency Services.
(c) “Fund” means the Human Trafficking Victims Assistance Fund.
(d) “Human trafficking caseworker” means a human trafficking caseworker as defined in Section 1038.2 of the Evidence Code, or a human trafficking caseworker who is employed by a homeless services provider that serves homeless children or youth and has completed a minimum of eight hours of training focused on victims of human trafficking from the Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Center.
(e) “Office” means the Office of Emergency Services.
(f) “Qualified nonprofit organization” means a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization that does both of the following:
(1) Employs a minimum of one individual who is a human trafficking caseworker.
(2) Provides services to victims of human trafficking, including, but not limited to, housing assistance, counseling services, and social services to victims of human trafficking.
(g) “Victim of human trafficking” means any person who is a trafficking victim as described in Section 236.1 of the Penal Code and satisfies either of the following conditions:
(1) Was trafficked in the state.
(2) Fled his or her trafficker to the state.
SEC. 3.
Section 15820.946 of the Government Code is amended to read:
15820.946.
(a) The participating county contribution for adult local criminal justice facilities financed under this chapter shall be a minimum of 10 percent of the total project costs. The BSCC may reduce contribution requirements for participating counties with a general population below 200,000 upon petition by a participating county to the BSCC requesting a lower level of contribution.
(b) The BSCC shall determine the funding and scoring criteria consistent with the requirements of this chapter. Financing shall be awarded only to those counties that have previously received only a partial award or have never received an award from the state within the financing programs authorized in Chapters 3.11 (commencing with Section 15820.90) to 3.131 (commencing with Section 15820.93), inclusive.
Notwithstanding this restriction, twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) of the amount authorized in Section 15820.942 shall be set aside and awarded to Napa County.
The funding criteria shall include, as a mandatory criterion, documentation of the percentage of pretrial inmates in the county jail from January 1, 2015, to December 31, 2015, inclusive, and a description of the county’s current risk assessment based pretrial release program. Funding preference shall also be given to counties that are most prepared to proceed successfully with this financing in a timely manner. The determination of preparedness to proceed shall include the following:
(1) Counties providing a board of supervisors’ resolution authorizing an adequate amount of available matching funds to satisfy the counties’ contribution and approving the forms of the project documents deemed necessary, as identified by the board to the BSCC, to effectuate the financing authorized by this chapter, and authorizing the appropriate signatory or signatories to execute those documents at the appropriate times. The identified matching funds in the resolution shall be compatible with the state’s lease-revenue bond financing.
(2) Counties providing documentation evidencing CEQA compliance has been completed. Documentation of CEQA compliance shall be either a final Notice of Determination or a final Notice of Exemption, as appropriate, and a letter from county counsel certifying the associated statute of limitations has expired and either no challenges were filed or identifying any challenges filed and explaining how they have been resolved in a manner that allows the project to proceed as proposed.
(c) Funding consideration shall be given to counties that are seeking to replace compacted, outdated, or unsafe housing capacity that will also add treatment space or counties that are seeking to renovate existing or build new facilities that provide adequate space for the provision of treatment and rehabilitation services, including mental health treatment.
(d) A participating county may replace existing housing capacity, realizing only a minimal increase of capacity, using this financing authority if the requesting county clearly documents an existing housing capacity deficiency.
(e) A participating county with a request resulting in any increase in capacity using this financing authority shall be required to certify and covenant in writing that the county is not, and will not be, leasing housing capacity to any other public or private entity for a period of 10 years beyond the completion date of the adult local criminal justice facility.
(f) Any locked facility constructed or renovated with state funding awarded under this program shall include space to provide onsite, in-person visitation capable of meeting or surpassing the minimum number of weekly visits required by state regulations for persons detained in the facility.
(g) Any county applying for financing authority under this program shall include a description of efforts to address sexual abuse in its adult local criminal justice facility constructed or renovated pursuant to this chapter.
SEC. 4.
Section 15820.947 is added to the Government Code, to read:
15820.947.
Notwithstanding the award restriction in subdivision (b) of Section 15820.946, twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) of the amount authorized in Section 15820.942 shall be set aside and awarded to Napa County without the submission by it of any further adult local criminal justice facility proposal. This amount may be utilized in conjunction with a partial award made to Napa County pursuant to Chapter 3.131 (commencing with Section 15820.93). These awards represent the maximum state contribution for the adult local criminal justice facility in Napa County.
SEC. 3.
SEC. 5.
The sum of three million dollars ($3,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the Gambling Control Fund to the Department of Justice for the purposes of Schedule (2) of Item 0820-001-0567 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2016 in order to address the backlog in investigations related to cardroom licensing.
SEC. 4.
SEC. 6.
This act is a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill within the meaning of subdivision (e) of Section 12 of Article IV of the California Constitution, has been identified as related to the budget in the Budget Bill, and shall take effect immediately.
r1 score is: 
0.1464530892448512
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large finetuned on 10 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law requires that, except as specified, not less than the general prevailing rate of per diem wages, determined by the Director of Industrial Relations, be paid to workers employed on public works projects. Under existing law, an apprentice employed upon public works is required to be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and to be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered, as specified.
This bill would require, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice to perform work on a public works project and requires compliance with certain preemployment activities as a condition of employment, as specified, that the apprentice be paid the prevailing rate for the time spent on any required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the activity, if any, except as specified.
Because this bill would expand the application of the prevailing wage requirements, the violation of which is a crime, it would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
(b) (1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered. (2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the required activity, if any, at the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
1777.5.
(a) This chapter does not prevent the employment of properly registered apprentices upon public works.
(b) (1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered.
(2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the required activity, if any, at the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered. Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, a contractor is not required to compensate an apprentice for the time spent on preemployment activities if the apprentice is required to take a preemployment drug or alcohol test and he or she fails to pass that test.
(c) Only apprentices, as defined in Section 3077, who are in training under apprenticeship standards that have been approved by the Chief of the Division of Apprenticeship Standards and who are parties to written apprentice agreements under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3070) of Division 3 are eligible to be employed at the apprentice wage rate on public works. The employment and training of each apprentice shall be in accordance with either of the following:
(1) The apprenticeship standards and apprentice agreements under which he or she is training.
(2) The rules and regulations of the California Apprenticeship Council.
(d) If the contractor to whom the contract is awarded by the state or any political subdivision, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs workers in any apprenticeable craft or trade, the contractor shall employ apprentices in at least the ratio set forth in this section and may apply to any apprenticeship program in the craft or trade that can provide apprentices to the site of the public work for a certificate approving the contractor under the apprenticeship standards for the employment and training of apprentices in the area or industry affected. However, the decision of the apprenticeship program to approve or deny a certificate shall be subject to review by the Administrator of Apprenticeship. The apprenticeship program or programs, upon approving the contractor, shall arrange for the dispatch of apprentices to the contractor. A contractor covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards shall not be required to submit any additional application in order to include additional public works contracts under that program. “Apprenticeable craft or trade,” as used in this section, means a craft or trade determined as an apprenticeable occupation in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the California Apprenticeship Council. As used in this section, “contractor” includes any subcontractor under a contractor who performs any public works not excluded by subdivision (o).
(e) Before commencing work on a contract for public works, every contractor shall submit contract award information to an applicable apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public work. The information submitted shall include an estimate of journeyman hours to be performed under the contract, the number of apprentices proposed to be employed, and the approximate dates the apprentices would be employed. A copy of this information shall also be submitted to the awarding body, if requested by the awarding body. Within 60 days after concluding work on the contract, each contractor and subcontractor shall submit to the awarding body, if requested, and to the apprenticeship program a verified statement of the journeyman and apprentice hours performed on the contract. The information under this subdivision shall be public. The apprenticeship programs shall retain this information for 12 months.
(f) The apprenticeship program supplying apprentices to the area of the site of the public work shall ensure equal employment and affirmative action in apprenticeship for women and minorities.
(g) The ratio of work performed by apprentices to journeymen employed in a particular craft or trade on the public work may be no higher than the ratio stipulated in the apprenticeship standards under which the apprenticeship program operates if the contractor agrees to be bound by those standards. However, except as otherwise provided in this section, in no case shall the ratio be less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of journeyman work.
(h) This ratio of apprentice work to journeyman work shall apply during any day or portion of a day when any journeyman is employed at the jobsite and shall be computed on the basis of the hours worked during the day by journeymen so employed. Any work performed by a journeyman in excess of eight hours per day or 40 hours per week shall not be used to calculate the ratio. The contractor shall employ apprentices for the number of hours computed as above before the end of the contract or, in the case of a subcontractor, before the end of the subcontract. However, the contractor shall endeavor, to the greatest extent possible, to employ apprentices during the same time period that the journeymen in the same craft or trade are employed at the jobsite. When an hourly apprenticeship ratio is not feasible for a particular craft or trade, the Administrator of Apprenticeship, upon application of an apprenticeship program, may order a minimum ratio of not less than one apprentice for each five journeymen in a craft or trade classification.
(i) A contractor covered by this section who has agreed to be covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards upon the issuance of the approval certificate, or who has been previously approved for an apprenticeship program in the craft or trade, shall employ the number of apprentices or the ratio of apprentices to journeymen stipulated in the applicable apprenticeship standards, but in no event less than the 1-to-5 ratio required by subdivision (g).
(j) Upon proper showing by a contractor that he or she employs apprentices in a particular craft or trade in the state on all of his or her contracts on an annual average of not less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of labor performed by journeymen, the Administrator of Apprenticeship may grant a certificate exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 hourly ratio, as set forth in this section for that craft or trade.
(k) An apprenticeship program has the discretion to grant to a participating contractor or contractor association a certificate, which shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator of Apprenticeship, exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 ratio set forth in this section when it finds that any one of the following conditions is met:
(1) Unemployment for the previous three-month period in the area exceeds an average of 15 percent.
(2) The number of apprentices in training in the area exceeds a ratio of 1 to 5.
(3) There is a showing that the apprenticeable craft or trade is replacing at least one-thirtieth of its journeymen annually through apprenticeship training, either on a statewide basis or on a local basis.
(4) Assignment of an apprentice to any work performed under a public works contract would create a condition that would jeopardize his or her life or the life, safety, or property of fellow employees or the public at large, or the specific task to which the apprentice is to be assigned is of a nature that training cannot be provided by a journeyman.
(l) If an exemption is granted pursuant to subdivision (k) to an organization that represents contractors in a specific trade from the 1-to-5 ratio on a local or statewide basis, the member contractors shall not be required to submit individual applications for approval to local joint apprenticeship committees, if they are already covered by the local apprenticeship standards.
(m) (1) A contractor to whom a contract is awarded, who, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs journeymen or apprentices in any apprenticeable craft or trade shall contribute to the California Apprenticeship Council the same amount that the director determines is the prevailing amount of apprenticeship training contributions in the area of the public works site. A contractor may take as a credit for payments to the council any amounts paid by the contractor to an approved apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public works project. The contractor may add the amount of the contributions in computing his or her bid for the contract.
(2) At the conclusion of the 2002–03 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the California Apprenticeship Council shall distribute training contributions received by the council under this subdivision, less the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for administering this subdivision, by making grants to approved apprenticeship programs for the purpose of training apprentices. The funds shall be distributed as follows:
(A) If there is an approved multiemployer apprenticeship program serving the same craft or trade and geographic area for which the training contributions were made to the council, a grant to that program shall be made.
(B) If there are two or more approved multiemployer apprenticeship programs serving the same craft or trade and county for which the training contributions were made to the council, the grant shall be divided among those programs based on the number of apprentices from that county registered in each program.
(C) All training contributions not distributed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be used to defray the future expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for the administration and enforcement of apprenticeship standards and requirements under this code.
(3) All training contributions received pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury. Upon appropriation by the Legislature, all moneys in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund shall be used for the purpose of carrying out this subdivision and to pay the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations.
(n) The body awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted in the contract stipulations to effectuate this section. The stipulations shall fix the responsibility of compliance with this section for all apprenticeable occupations with the prime contractor.
(o) This section does not apply to contracts of general contractors or to contracts of specialty contractors not bidding for work through a general or prime contractor when the contracts of general contractors or those specialty contractors involve less than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).
(p) An awarding body that implements an approved labor compliance program in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 1771.5 may, with the approval of the director, assist in the enforcement of this section under the terms and conditions prescribed by the director.
SEC. 2.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.6149732620320855
==================================
target summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. PEPRA exempts from its provisions certain public employees whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law until a specified federal district court decision on a certification by the United States Secretary of Labor, or until January 1, 2016, whichever is sooner.
This bill would extend indefinitely that exemption for those public employees, whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
The bill would exempt these employees from PEPRA without regard to date of hire upon issuance of a specified federal district court decision.
produced summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. Existing law, the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, generally authorizes 2 or more public agencies, by agreement, to jointly exercise any common power, which may include hiring employees and establishing retirement systems. PEPRA authorizes a joint powers authority formed by the Cities of Brea and Fullerton on or after January 1, 2013, to provide its employees the defined benefit plan or formula that those employees received from their respective employers prior to the exercise of a common power, to which the employee is associated, by the joint powers authority to any employee of specified cities who is not a new member and subsequently is employed by the joint powers authority within 180 days of the city providing for the exercise of a common power, to which the employee was associated, by the joint powers authority. This bill would authorize a joint powers authority formed by the Belmont Fire Protection District, the Estero Municipal Improvement District, and the City of San Mateo on or after January 1, 2013, to provide employees
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 7522.02 of the Government Code is amended to read:
7522.02.
(a) (1) Notwithstanding any other law, except as provided in this article, on and after January 1, 2013, this article shall apply to all state and local public retirement systems and to their participating employers, including the Public Employees’ Retirement System, the State Teachers’ Retirement System, the Legislators’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System II, county and district retirement systems created pursuant to the County Employees Retirement Law of 1937 (Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3), independent public retirement systems, and to individual retirement plans offered by public employers. However, this article shall be subject to the Internal Revenue Code and Section 17 of Article XVI of the California Constitution. The administration of the requirements of this article shall comply with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to the entities described in Section 9 of Article IX of, and Sections 4 and 5 of Article XI of, the California Constitution, except to the extent that these entities continue to be participating employers in any retirement system governed by state statute. Accordingly, any retirement plan approved before January 1, 2013, by the voters of any entity excluded from coverage by this section shall not be affected by this article.
(3)
(A)
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
(B) If a federal district court upholds the determination of the United States Secretary of Labor, or his or her designee, that application of this article precludes him or her from providing a certification under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code, this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under that section.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a multiemployer plan authorized by Section 302(c)(5) of the federal Taft-Hartley Act (29 U.S.C. Sec. 186(c)(5)) if the public employer began participation in that plan prior to January 1, 2013, and the plan is regulated by the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 et seq.).
(b) The benefit plan required by this article shall apply to public employees who are new members as defined in Section 7522.04.
(c) (1) Individuals who were employed by any public employer before January 1, 2013, and who became employed by a subsequent public employer for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, shall be subject to the retirement plan that would have been available to employees of the subsequent employer who were first employed by the subsequent employer on or before December 31, 2012, if the individual was subject to concurrent membership for which creditable service was performed in the previous six months or reciprocity established under any of the following provisions:
(A) Article 5 (commencing with Section 20350) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2.
(B) Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3.
(C) Any agreement between public retirement systems to provide reciprocity to members of the systems.
(D) Section 22115.2 of the Education Code.
(2) An individual who was employed before January 1, 2013, and who, without a separation from employment, changed employment positions and became subject to a different defined benefit plan in a different public retirement system offered by his or her employer shall be subject to that defined benefit plan as it would have been available to employees who were first employed on or before December 31, 2012.
(d) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a defined benefit pension plan that provides a defined benefit formula with a lower benefit factor at normal retirement age and results in a lower normal cost than the defined benefit formula required by this article, that employer may continue to offer that defined benefit formula instead of the defined benefit formula required by this article, and shall not be subject to the requirements of Section 7522.10 for pensionable compensation subject to that formula. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the retirement board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the defined benefit plan may only participate in the lower cost defined benefit formula that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article or is approved by the Legislature as provided in this subdivision.
(e) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a retirement benefit plan that consists solely of a defined contribution plan, that employer may continue to offer that plan instead of the defined benefit pension plan required by this article. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit pension plan or defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that plan or formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the system’s board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the employer’s plan may only participate in the defined contribution plan that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined contribution plan or defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article. This subdivision shall not be construed to prohibit an employer from offering a defined contribution plan on or after January 1, 2013, either with or without a defined benefit plan, whether or not the employer offered a defined contribution plan prior to that date.
(f) (1) If, on or after January 1, 2013, the Cities of Brea and Fullerton form a joint powers authority pursuant to the provisions of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act (Article 1 (commencing with Section 6500) of Chapter 5), that joint powers authority may provide employees the defined benefit plan or formula that those employees received from their respective employers prior to the exercise of a common power, to which the employee is associated, by the joint powers authority to any employee of the City of Brea, the City of Fullerton, or a city described in paragraph (2) who is not a new member and subsequently is employed by the joint powers authority within 180 days of the city providing for the exercise of a common power, to which the employee was associated, by the joint powers authority.
(2) On or before January 1, 2017, a city in Orange County that is contiguous to the City of Brea or the City of Fullerton may join the joint powers authority described in paragraph (1) but not more than three cities shall be permitted to join.
(3) The formation of a joint powers authority on or after January 1, 2013, shall not act in a manner as to exempt a new employee or a new member, as defined by Section 7522.04, from the requirements of this article. New members may only participate in a defined benefit plan or formula that conforms to the requirements of this article.
(g) The Judges’ Retirement System and the Judges’ Retirement System II shall not be required to adopt the defined benefit formula required by Section 7522.20 or 7522.25 or the compensation limitations defined in Section 7522.10.
(h) This article shall not be construed to provide membership in any public retirement system for an individual who would not otherwise be eligible for membership under that system’s applicable rules or laws.
(i) On and after January 1, 2013, each public retirement system shall modify its plan or plans to comply with the requirements of this article and may adopt regulations or resolutions for this purpose.
r1 score is: 
0.543640897755611
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes in state government the Government Operations Agency, headed by the Secretary of Government Operations. The secretary is required to review the operations and evaluate the performance of each department, office, or other unit within the agency and seek to continually improve, among other things, the operating policies and the management of information systems of those entities within the agency. The agency includes, among other state government entities, the Department of General Services and the Department of Technology.
This bill would establish, within the Government Operations Agency, the Department of Customer Service to be headed by a Director of Customer Service, who would be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Governor. The bill would require the director to engage the agency to promote an understanding of customer service and ensure the agency is making administrative decisions that serve customer needs. The bill would further require the director to, among other things, advise the Governor on the strategic development and management of state customer service programs, and consult with the Director of Technology, the Director of General Services, and the Director of Finance to establish customer service goals for state information technology. The bill would specifically require the director to annually report to the Director of Finance and specific committees of the Legislature regarding the cost savings achieved through improvements to customer service within the Government Operations Agency that were implemented by the department, and would further require the director to annually report on the customer service performance of the agency. The bill would require all state entities to reasonably cooperate with the requests of the director that relate to the duties of the director and the department. The bill would make related legislative findings.
produced summary is: 
It is the intent of the Legislature that this act establish a Department of Customer Service, headed by a Director of Customer Service, that develops and implements strategies to improve the customer service experience, in various capacities, throughout the Government Operations Agency and state government. (b) The Director of Customer Service shall serve as the head of the Department of Customer Service and shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Governor. The director shall engage the agency to promote an understanding of customer service and ensure the agency is making administrative decisions that serve customer needs. Existing law establishes the Department of Customer Service, headed by a director, to develop and implement strategies to improve the customer service experience, in various capacities, throughout the Government Operations Agency and state government. Existing law requires the director to engage the agency to promote an understanding of customer service and ensure the agency is making administrative decisions that serve customer needs. This bill would establish the Department of Customer Service, headed by a director, to develop and implement strategies to improve the customer service experience, in various capacities, throughout the Government Operations Agency and state government. The bill would require the director to engage the agency to promote an understanding of customer service and ensure the agency is making administrative decisions that serve customer needs. The bill would require the
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
It is the intent of the Legislature that this act establish a Department of Customer Service, headed by a Director of Customer Service, that develops and implements strategies to improve the customer service experience, in various capacities, throughout the Government Operations Agency and state government.
SEC. 2.
Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 11999) is added to Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to read:
CHAPTER  11. Department of Customer Service
Article  1. Department of Customer Service
11999.
(a) There is in state government, within the Government Operations Agency, the Department of Customer Service.
(b) The Director of Customer Service shall serve as the head of the Department of Customer Service and shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Governor.
11999.5.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a) “Agency” means the Government Operations Agency.
(b) “Department” means the Department of Customer Service.
(c) “Director” means the Director of Customer Service.
11999.10.
The director shall engage the agency to promote an understanding of customer service and ensure the agency is making administrative decisions that serve customer needs.
11999.15.
The director shall do all of the following:
(a) Advise the Governor on the strategic development and management of state customer service programs.
(b) Develop and manage a customer service program within the agency that captures both annual and transactional feedback in a unified and standardized platform to improve an understanding of customer service and allows the agency to take action on that data.
(c) Develop and implement the ideal customer experience for new and existing products and services provided by the agency.
(d) Develop and manage an employee program within the agency to capture and analyze employee feedback regarding customer service that fosters employee retention, recruitment, engagement, and productivity.
(e) Utilize both qualitative and quantitative customer feedback to identify best customer service practices for the agency.
(f) Develop a mechanism to give customers of the agency the opportunity to provide real-time feedback through the Internet, telephone, and in-person communication.
(g) Create a strong, customer-centric culture complete with accountability and ownership at all levels of the agency.
(h) Establish performance management and improvement processes to ensure state customer service and state customer service systems are efficient and effective.
(i) Consult with the Director of Technology, the Director of General Services, and the Director of Finance to establish customer service goals for state information technology.
(j) Develop and manage a strategy to improve the delivery of a positive customer service experience across information technology, human resources, and procurement functions of the agency.
(k) Improve organizational capacity in the effective management of customer service initiatives within the agency.
(l) Consult with the Secretary of Government Operations and the heads of entities within the agency to ensure the integration of customer service initiatives and compliance with information technology policies and standards for the effective management of information technology services within the agency.
11999.20
The director shall supervise and manage the Office of Digital Services.
11999.25.
(a) On or before January 1, 2018, and annually thereafter, the director shall transmit a written report to the Director of Finance, in the manner directed by the Director of Finance, the cost savings achieved through improvements to customer service within the agency that were implemented by the department.
(b) Within 30 days of reporting to the Director of Finance as required by subdivision (a), the department shall transmit a copy of the report to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee, the Senate Committee on Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Budget and Fiscal Review, the Assembly Committee on Appropriations, and the Assembly Committee on Budget, or any successor committee.
11999.30.
The director, in consultation with the Director of Technology, shall produce an annual customer service strategic plan that shall guide state agencies and departments. State agencies shall cooperate with the development of this plan.
11999.35.
(a) The director shall annually prepare a written report on the customer service performance of the agency that includes, but is not limited to, an assessment on the progress of the agency on all of the following:
(1) Delivering improved customer service.
(2) Reducing and avoiding costs and risks associated with the acquisition, development, implementation, management, and operation of information technology assets.
(3) Enhancing the security, reliability, and quality of information technology networks, services, and systems.
(4) Improving the information technology procurement process.
(b) The director shall post the report required by subdivision (a) on the Internet Web site of the department.
11999.40.
All state entities shall reasonably cooperate with the requests of the director that relate to the duties of the director and the department.
r1 score is: 
0.6115384615384615
==================================
