Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEGLarge0, tested on CA, can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law provides for the administration and operation of juvenile court schools by the county board of education.
This bill would express the Legislature’s intent that juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study that prepares pupils for high school graduation and career entry and fulfills the requirements for admission to the California State University and the University of California.
Existing law prescribes the course of study a pupil is required to complete while in grades 9 to 12, inclusive, in order to receive a diploma of graduation, and authorizes the governing board of a school district to prescribe other coursework requirements that are in addition to the statewide requirements. Existing law exempts pupils in foster care and pupils who are homeless children or youths from local graduation requirements and also requires a school district and county office of education to accept coursework satisfactorily completed by those pupils while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school.
This bill would make that exemption and requirement to accept coursework satisfactorily completed applicable to former juvenile court school pupils, as defined. The bill would also require a county office of education to issue a diploma of graduation to a pupil who completes statewide coursework requirements for graduation while attending a juvenile court school but does not complete coursework and other requirements that are in addition to the statewide graduation requirements. By placing additional requirements on school districts and county offices of education, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain cidden">
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
produced summary is: 
The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance court in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. (c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.0625514403292181
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law, known as the Donahoe Higher Education Act, sets forth the missions and functions of the segments of postsecondary education in this state. The California State University, under the administration of the Trustees of the California State University, the California Community Colleges, under the administration of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, and the University of California, under the administration of the Regents of the University of California, constitute the 3 segments of public postsecondary education in this state. Provisions of the Donahoe Higher Education Act apply to the University of California only to the extent that the regents act, by appropriate resolution, to make those provisions applicable.
An existing chapter of the Donahoe Higher Education Act relates to the use of academic materials, and provides that a court of competent jurisdiction is authorized to grant relief that is necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including through the issuance of an injunction.
This chapter also includes the College Textbook Transparency Act which, among other things, provides that certain faculty members, defined as adopters, are authorized to receive royalties or other compensation from sales of course materials that include the instructor’s writing or other work, subject to the employer’s standing policies or collective bargaining agreements relating to employee conflicts of interest.
This bill would add to this chapter a provision that requires the trustees and the governing board of each community college district, and requests the regents, to require their faculty members to annually disclose, on or before April 15, 2017, and on or before April 15 of each year thereafter, on a form and in a manner to be determined by the trustees, the governing board, or the regents, as appropriate, all of the income he or she received in the immediately preceding calendar year from a publisher, periodical, or provider of online content for royalties, advances, consulting services, or for any other purpose.
The bill would require faculty members to whom the bill is applicable to file a form even if they have no disclosable income in the calendar year. The bill would require that these forms be filed under penalty of perjury, thereby imposing a state-mandated local program by expanding the scope of the crime of perjury.
The bill would require that the information provided by the faculty members under this bill be available to the public on the Internet Web site of the institution at which the faculty members teach, as specified. The bill would authorize the trustees, community college governing boards, or regents to require a faculty member who does not file the information required under this bill in a timely manner to pay an administrative fine of up to
25% of the unreported income or $5,000, whichever is smaller,
$50,
as specified.
The bill would authorize the trustees and the community college district governing boards to expend the proceeds of these fines for general educational purposes at the campuses at which the faculty members who were assessed the fines were employed. With respect to the California State University, the bill would establish the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund as a continuously appropriated fund for the deposit of fine proceeds and their allocation to the appropriate campuses. The bill would request the regents to allocate the proceeds of any administrative fines they collect pursuant to the bill in a manner similar to that described for the California State University.
To the extent that this provision would impose new duties on community college districts, this bill would constitute a state-mandated local program.
(2)The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
(2) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that with regard to certain mandates no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
With regard to any other mandates, this bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs so mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory provisions noted above.
produced summary is: 
(b) As used in this section, the following terms have the following meanings: (1) “Adopter” means any faculty member or academic department or other adopting entity at an institution of higher education responsible for considering and choosing course materials to be used in connection with the accredited courses taught at that institution. (2) “Complimentary copies” or “review course materials” only includes books that in all appearances are the same as the regular student edition of the textbook, and contain no material other than that found in the regular student edition of the textbook.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 66406.7 of the Education Code is amended to read:
66406.7.
(a) This section shall be known and may be cited as the College Textbook Transparency Act.
(b) As used in this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “Adopter” means any faculty member or academic department or other adopting entity at an institution of higher education responsible for considering and choosing course materials to be used in connection with the accredited courses taught at that institution.
(2) “Complimentary copies” or “review course materials” only includes books that in all appearances are the same as the regular student edition of the textbook, and contain no material other than that found in the regular student edition of the textbook.
(3) “Instructor copies” or “complimentary teacher editions” means books with information that is meant to be for the exclusive use of teachers and not for students. These books contain answers and solutions, test questions, and pedagogical techniques, and are often labeled instructor’s edition or instructor’s manuals.
(4) “New edition of textbook” means a subsequent version of an earlier standard textbook. A standard textbook is the primary, full, and unabridged edition of a textbook. An abridged, alternate format, or alternate version of a standard textbook shall not be considered a new edition.
(5) “Publisher” means any publishing house, publishing firm, or publishing company that publishes textbooks or other course materials, specifically designed for postsecondary instruction.
(6) “Textbook” means a book that contains printed material and is intended for use as a source of study material for a class or group of students, a copy of which is expected to be available for the use of each of the students in that class or group. “Textbook” does not include a novel.
(7) “Unsolicited complimentary copies” means all items described in paragraph (2) and that were not requested by faculty but are sent by the publisher unsolicited by a faculty or staff member.
(c) (1) Adopters are encouraged to consider cost in the adoption of textbooks.
(2) Publishers shall facilitate the work done by adopters by providing transparency in the adoption process and shall be responsive in a timely manner to requests for information on textbook cost and content, and the full range of options.
(d) (1) On or after January 1, 2010, the publisher of a textbook shall print on the outer cover of, or within, the standard textbook, both of the following items:
(A)  For any new editions of textbooks initially published on or after January 1, 2010, a summary of the substantive content differences between the new edition and the prior edition.
(B) The copyright date of the previous edition of the textbook.
(2) For instructor copies or complimentary teacher editions, it shall be noted on the exterior of the book that the book is an instructor’s copy and is not for resale.
(e) (1) A publisher, or agent or employee of a publisher, of textbooks intended for use at a postsecondary educational institution shall respond to a request from an adopter for any of the following:
(A) A list of the products offered for sale by that publisher that are relevant to the needs and interests of adopters.
(B) The price at which the new book is available from the publisher.
(C) The copyright date of any prior edition of a textbook, if available.
(D) A list of the substantial content differences or changes made between the current edition initially published on or after January 1, 2010, and the previous edition of the textbook, including, but not necessarily limited to, new chapters, additional eras of time, new themes, or new subject matter.
(2) The information described in this subdivision shall be available in print or electronically to the adopter.
(f) Each campus bookstore at any public postsecondary educational institution shall post in its store or on its Internet Web site a disclosure of its retail pricing policy on new and used textbooks.
(g) Each public postsecondary educational institution shall encourage adopters with course material selection responsibilities to place their orders with sufficient lead time, whenever possible, to enable the university-managed bookstore or contract-managed bookstore to confirm the availability of the requested materials.
(h) This section does not limit the authority of faculty over decisions relating to the selection of textbooks.
(i)  An adopter at an institution of higher education shall not demand or receive anything of value, including the donation of equipment or goods, any payment, loan, advance, or deposit of money, present or promised, for adopting specific course materials required for coursework or instruction, except that an employee may receive any of the following:
(1) Complimentary copies, review course materials, or instructor copies. The adopters shall not sell instructor copies.
(2) Royalties or other compensation from sales of course materials that include the instructor’s writing or other work. Receipt of these royalties or compensation is subject to the employer’s standing policies or collective bargaining agreements relating to employee conflicts of
interest.
interest and, with respect to faculty members of the California State University and the California Community Colleges, subject to the requirements of Section 66407.3.
(3) Honoraria for academic peer review of course materials. Receipt of honoraria is subject to the employer’s standing policies relating to employee conflicts of interest.
(4) Training in the use of course materials and course technologies. Payment for travel and lodging and or meals shall be subject to the employer’s standing polices relating to employee conflicts of interest and compensation.
(j) A publisher or campus bookstore shall not solicit faculty for the purpose of the sale of instructor copies or complimentary teachers editions of textbooks that have been provided by a publisher at no charge to a faculty member or other employee. This subdivision does not apply to unsolicited complimentary copies.
(k) A campus bookstore shall not engage in any trade of any course material marked, or otherwise identified, as instructor copies or complementary teachers editions of textbooks.
(l) Any self-published textbook by an instructor for use with that instructor’s class shall be exempt from this section, if the instructor discloses the publishing and use of those materials to his or her employer institution.
SECTION 1.
SEC. 2.
Section 66407.3 is added to the Education Code, to read:
66407.3.
(a) The Trustees of the California State University and the governing board of each community college district shall, and the Regents of the University of California are requested to, require its faculty members to annually disclose, on or before April 15, 2017, and on or before April 15 of each year thereafter, on a form and in a manner to be determined by the trustees, the governing board, or the regents, as appropriate, all of the income he or she received in the immediately preceding calendar year from a publisher, periodical, or provider of online content for royalties, advances, consulting services, or for any other purpose.
A faculty member to whom this section is applicable shall be required to file a form even if he or she has no disclosable income in the calendar year. A faculty member shall file the form required by this section under penalty of perjury.
(b) The trustees, community college district governing boards, and regents shall ensure that the information provided by the faculty members pursuant to subdivision (a) is available to the public on the Internet Web site of the institution at which the faculty members teach. The information provided by an individual faculty member pursuant to this section shall remain available on the Internet Web site for as long as that individual is employed as a teacher at that institution.
(c) The trustees, community college district governing board, and the regents, as appropriate, may require, with proper notice and an opportunity for a hearing, a faculty member who does not file the information required pursuant to this section in a timely manner to pay an administrative fine of up to
25 percent of the unreported income or five thousand dollars ($5,000), whichever is smaller.
fifty dollars ($50).
The proceeds of any administrative fines
collected
pursuant to this subdivision shall be collected by the trustees or by a community college district governing board, as appropriate, and shall be deposited in a fund for allocation pursuant to subdivision (d).
(d) (1) The trustees shall deposit the proceeds of administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) into the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund, which is hereby established. Notwithstanding Section 13340 of the Government Code, the moneys in the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund are continuously appropriated to the trustees for allocation for expenditure for general educational purposes at the campus at which the faculty member who was assessed the fine is employed.
(2) The governing board of a community college district is authorized to expend the proceeds of any administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) for general educational purposes at the campus at which the faculty member who was assessed the fine is employed.
(3) The regents are requested to allocate the proceeds of any administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) in a manner similar to that described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 2.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
SEC. 3.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII   B of the California Constitution for certain costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because, in that regard, this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII   B of the California Constitution.
However, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.1347517730496454
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law creates the California Insurance Guarantee Association (CIGA) and requires all insurers admitted to transact specified insurance lines in this state to become members. Each time an insurer becomes insolvent, to the extent necessary to secure funds for payment of covered claims of that insolvent insurer and also for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, CIGA is required to collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations, as specified.
This bill, among other things, would no longer require an insurer to become insolvent in order for CIGA to collect premium payments from the member insurers and would require CIGA to collect premiums in order to secure funds for the payment of its administrative expenses.
(2) Under existing law, CIGA is required to be a party in interest in all proceedings involving a covered claim, and has the same rights as the insolvent insurer would have had if not in liquidation, but CIGA has no cause of action against the insureds of the insolvent insurer for any sums it has paid out, except as provided.
This bill would provide that the above-stated provision denying CIGA a cause of action against insureds does not limit CIGA’s right to pursue unpaid reimbursements owed by an employer pursuant to a workers’ compensation insurance policy with a deductible if the employer was obligated to reimburse the insurer for benefits payments and related expenses paid by the insurer or CIGA from a special deposit or from other CIGA funds pursuant to the terms of the policy and related agreements.
(3) Existing law requires that the rate of premium charged be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium, as defined, in the preceding calendar year applicable to specific categories of insurance. The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories are initially based on the written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the Insurance Commissioner and are later adjusted, as provided. Existing law authorizes CIGA to refund any credit due in a specific category of insurance to a member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation, as provided.
This bill would instead require CIGA, with regard to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017, to refund to a member insurer any credit due in a specific category as a result of the adjusted premium calculation.
This bill, with regard to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017, would delete the requirements that the rate of premium charges be initially based on the written premium of each insurer, that the premium charges be adjusted later as provided, and that the member insurer be eligible for a refund of any credit due to that member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation, and would instead require that the rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories be based on the net direct written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner. The bill would also make conforming changes.
(4) Existing law authorizes CIGA to exempt or defer a member insurer from paying the premium charge if the payment would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. Deferred premium charges are required to be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums. These payments are credited against future premium charges to those companies receiving larger premium charges by virtue of the deferment.
This bill would delete the requirement that the payments be credited against future premium charges to those companies receiving larger premium charges by virtue of the deferment.
(5) Existing law requires CIGA’s plan of operations to contain provisions requiring each member insurer to recoup the premium charge paid to CIGA from its insureds over a reasonable length of time by way of a reasonably calculated surcharge on insurance policies to which the provisions of CIGA apply.
This bill would instead require each member insurer to recoup the premium charge from its insureds in the year following the charge. The bill, with regard to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017, among other things, would require the member insurer to file a report in accordance with the provisions of the plan of operation indicating the amount of surcharges it has collected, and would prohibit a member insurer electing to omit collecting surcharges from any of its insureds from being entitled to any reimbursement from CIGA, as specified.
produced summary is: 
Any person having a claim that may be recovered under more than one insurance guaranty association or its equivalent shall seek recovery first from the association of the place of residence of the insured, except that if it is a first-party claim for damage to property with a permanent location, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the permanent location of the property, and if it is a workers’ compensation claim, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the residence of the claimant.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1063.2 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
1063.2.
(a) The association shall pay and discharge covered claims, and in connection therewith, pay for or furnish loss adjustment services and defenses of claimants when required by policy provisions. It may do so either directly by itself or through a servicing facility or through a contract for reinsurance and assumption of liabilities by one or more member insurers or through a contract with the liquidator, upon terms satisfactory to the association and to the liquidator, under which payments on covered claims would be made by the liquidator using funds provided by the association.
(b) (1) The association shall be a party in interest in all proceedings involving a covered claim, and shall have the same rights as the insolvent insurer would have had if not in liquidation, including, but not limited to, the right to all of the following:
(A) Appear, defend, and appeal a claim in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(B) Receive notice of, investigate, adjust, compromise, settle, and pay a covered claim.
(C) Investigate, handle, and deny a noncovered claim.
(2) The association shall have no cause of action against the insureds of the insolvent insurer for any sums it has paid out, except as provided by this article.
(3) Nothing in paragraph (2) limits the association’s right to pursue unpaid reimbursements owed by an employer pursuant to a workers’ compensation insurance policy with a deductible if the employer was obligated to reimburse the insurer for benefits payments and related expenses paid by the insurer or the association from a special deposit or from other association funds pursuant to the terms of the policy and related agreements.
(c) (1) If damages against uninsured motorists are recoverable by the claimant from his or her own insurer, the applicable limits of the uninsured motorist coverage shall be a credit against a covered claim payable under this article. Any person having a claim that may be recovered under more than one insurance guaranty association or its equivalent shall seek recovery first from the association of the place of residence of the insured, except that if it is a first-party claim for damage to property with a permanent location, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the permanent location of the property, and if it is a workers’ compensation claim, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the residence of the claimant. Any recovery under this article shall be reduced by the amount of recovery from any other insurance guaranty association or its equivalent. A member insurer may recover in subrogation from the association only one-half of any amount paid by that insurer under uninsured motorist coverage for bodily injury or wrongful death (and nothing for a payment for anything else), in those cases where the injured person insured by such an insurer has proceeded under his or her uninsured motorist coverage on the ground that the tortfeasor is uninsured as a result of the insolvency of his or her liability insurer (an insolvent insurer as defined in this article), provided that the member insurer shall waive all rights of subrogation against the tortfeasor. Any amount paid a claimant in excess of the amount authorized by this section may be recovered by action, or other proceeding, brought by the association.
(2) Any claimant having collision coverage on a loss that is covered by the insolvent company’s liability policy shall first proceed against his or her collision carrier. Neither that claimant nor the collision carrier, if it is a member of the association, shall have the right to sue or continue a suit against the insured of the insolvent insurance company for that collision damage.
(d) The association shall have the right to recover from any person who is an affiliate of the insolvent insurer and whose liability obligations to other persons are satisfied in whole or in part by payments made under this article the amount of any covered claim and allocated claims expense paid on behalf of that person pursuant to this article.
(e) Any person having a claim or legal right of recovery under any governmental insurance or guaranty program that is also a covered claim, shall be required to first exhaust his or her right under the program. Any amount payable on a covered claim shall be reduced by the amount of any recovery under the program.
(f) “Covered claims” for unearned premium by lenders under insurance premium finance agreements as defined in Section 673 shall be computed as of the earliest cancellation date of the policy pursuant to Section 673.
(g) “Covered claims” shall not include any judgments against or obligations or liabilities of the insolvent insurer or the commissioner, as liquidator, or otherwise resulting from alleged or proven torts, nor shall any default judgment or stipulated judgment against the insolvent insurer, or against the insured of the insolvent insurer, be binding against the association.
(h) “Covered claims” shall not include any loss adjustment expenses, including adjustment fees and expenses, attorney’s fees and expenses, court costs, interest, and bond premiums, incurred prior to the appointment of a liquidator.
SEC. 2.
Section 1063.5 of the Insurance Code is amended and renumbered, to immediately precede Section 1063.5 of the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.45.
(a) (1) To the extent necessary to secure funds for the association for payment of administrative expenses of the association and covered claims of insolvent insurers and also for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, the association shall collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations.
(2) The association shall allocate its claim payments and costs, incurred or estimated to be incurred, to one or more of the following categories:
(A) Workers’ compensation claims.
(B) Homeowners’ claims and automobile claims, including all of the following:
(i) Automobile material damage.
(ii) Automobile liability (both personal injury and death and property damage).
(iii) Medical payments.
(iv) Uninsured motorist claims.
(C) Claims other than workers’ compensation, homeowners, and automobile, as defined above.
(3) Separate premium payments shall be required for each category.
(4) The premium payments for each category shall be used to pay the claims and costs allocated to that category.
(b) (1) The rate of premium charged shall be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium in the preceding calendar year applicable to that category.
(2) The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories shall initially be based on the written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner.
(3) The initial premium shall be adjusted by applying the same rate of premium charge as initially used to each insurer’s written premium as shown on the annual statement for the second year following the year on which the initial premium charge was based.
(4) (A) The difference between the initial premium charge and the adjusted premium charge shall be charged or credited to each member insurer by the association as soon as practical after the filing of the annual statements of the member insurers with the commissioner for the year on which the adjusted premium is based.
(B) Any credit due in a specific category to a member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation shall be refunded to the member insurer.
(c) (1) For purposes of this section, “net direct written premiums” means the amount of gross premiums, less return premiums, received in that calendar year upon business done in this state, other than premiums received for reinsurance.
(2) In cases of a dispute as to the amount of the net direct written premium between the association and one of its member insurers, the written decision of the commissioner shall be final.
(d) (1) The premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct premium written in that category in this state by that member insurer per year, starting on January 1, 2003, until December 31, 2007, and thereafter shall be 1 percent per year, until January 1, 2015.
(2) Commencing January 1, 2015, the premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct written premium unless there are bonds outstanding that were issued pursuant to Article 14.25 (commencing with Section 1063.50) or Article 14.26 (commencing with Section 1063.70).
(3) If bonds issued pursuant to either article are outstanding, the premium charged to a member insurer for the category for which the bond proceeds are being used to pay claims and expenses shall not be more than 1 percent of the net direct written premium for that category.
(e) (1) The association may exempt or defer, in whole or in part, the premium charge of any member insurer, if the premium charge would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. However, during the period of deferment, no dividends shall be paid to shareholders or policyholders by the company whose premium charge was deferred.
(2) Deferred premium charges shall be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums.
(f) After all covered claims of the insolvent insurer and expenses of administration have been paid, any unused premiums and any reimbursements or claims dividends from the liquidator remaining in any category shall be retained by the association and applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(g) The commissioner may suspend or revoke the certificate of authority to transact business in this state of a member insurer that fails to pay a premium when due and after demand has been made.
(h) Interest at a rate equal to the current federal reserve discount rate plus 2
1/2
percent per annum shall be added to the premium of any member insurer that fails to submit the premium requested by the association within 30 days after the mailing request. However, in no event shall the interest rate exceed the legal maximum.
(i) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017.
(j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2020, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2020, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 3.
Section 1063.5 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.5.
(a) (1) To the extent necessary to secure funds for the association for payment of the administrative expenses of the association, covered claims of insolvent insurers, and for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, the association shall collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations.
(2) The association shall allocate its claim payments and costs, incurred or estimated to be incurred, to one or more of the following categories:
(A) Workers’ compensation claims.
(B) Homeowners’ claims and automobile claims, including all of the following:
(i) Automobile material damage.
(ii) Automobile liability (both personal injury and death and property damage).
(iii) Medical payments.
(iv) Uninsured motorist claims.
(C) Claims other than workers’ compensation, homeowners’, and automobile, as defined above.
(3) Separate premium payments shall be required for each category.
(4) The premium payments for each category shall be used to pay the claims and costs allocated to that category.
(b) (1) The rate of premium charged shall be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium in the preceding calendar year applicable to that category.
(2) The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories shall be based on the net direct written premium of each member insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner.
(c) (1) For purposes of this section, “net direct written premiums” means the amount of gross premiums, less return premiums, received in that calendar year upon business done in this state, other than premiums received for reinsurance.
(2) In cases of a dispute as to the amount of the net direct written premium between the association and one of its member insurers, the written decision of the commissioner shall be final.
(d) In charging premiums to member insurers, the association shall adjust, if necessary, the net direct written premiums shown on a member insurer’s annual statement by excluding any premiums written for any lines of insurance or types of coverage not covered by this article under paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 1063.1.
(e) (1) The premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct written premium unless there are bonds outstanding that were issued pursuant to Article 14.25 (commencing with Section 1063.50) or Article 14.26 (commencing with Section 1063.70).
(2) If bonds issued pursuant to either article are outstanding, the premium charged to a member insurer for the category for which the bond proceeds are being used to pay claims and expenses shall not be more than 1 percent of the net direct written premium for that category.
(f) (1) The association may exempt or defer, in whole or in part, the premium charge of any member insurer, if the premium charge would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. However, during the period of deferment, no dividends shall be paid to shareholders or policyholders by the company whose premium charge was deferred.
(2) Deferred premium charges shall be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums.
(g) After all covered claims of insolvent insurers and expenses of administration have been paid, any unused premiums and any reimbursements or claims dividends from liquidators remaining in any category shall be retained by the association and applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(h) The commissioner may suspend or revoke the certificate of authority to transact business in this state of a member insurer that fails to pay a premium when due and after demand has been made.
(i) Interest at a rate equal to the current federal reserve discount rate plus 2
1/2
percent per annum shall be added to the premium of any member insurer that fails to submit the premium requested by the association within 30 days after the mailing request. However, in no event shall the interest rate exceed the legal maximum.
(j) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017.
SEC. 4.
Section 1063.14 of the Insurance Code is amended and renumbered, to immediately precede Section 1063.14 of the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.135.
(a) The plan of operation adopted pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1063 shall contain provisions whereby each member insurer is required to recoup in the year following the premium charge a sum reasonably calculated to recoup the premium charge paid by the member insurer under this article by way of a surcharge on premiums charged for insurance policies to which this article applies. Amounts recouped shall not be considered premiums for any other purpose, including the computation of gross premium tax or agents’ commission.
(b) The amount of any surcharge shall be separately stated on either a billing or policy declaration sent to an insured. The association shall determine the rate of the surcharge and the collection period for each category and these shall be mandatory for all member insurers of the association who write business in those categories. Member insurers who collect surcharges in excess of premiums paid pursuant to Section 1063.45 for an insolvent insurer shall remit the excess to the association as an additional premium within 30 days after the association has determined the amount of the excess recoupment and given notice to the member insurer of that amount. The excess shall be applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(c) The plan of operation may permit a member insurer to omit collection of the surcharge from its insureds when the expense of collecting the surcharge would exceed the amount of the surcharge. However, nothing in this section shall relieve the member insurer of its obligation to recoup the amount of surcharge otherwise collectible.
(d) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017.
(e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2020, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2020, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 5.
Section 1063.14 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.14.
(a) (1) The plan of operation adopted pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1063 shall contain provisions whereby each member insurer is required to recoup in the year following the premium charge a sum calculated to recoup the premium charge paid by the member insurer under this article by way of a surcharge on premiums charged for insurance policies to which this article applies.
(2) Amounts recouped shall not be considered premiums for any other purpose, including the computation of gross premium tax or agents’ commission.
(b) (1) The amount of any surcharge shall be separately stated on either a billing or policy declaration sent to an insured. The association shall determine the rate of the surcharge and the collection period for each category, and these shall be mandatory for all member insurers of the association who write business in those categories.
(2) Each member insurer shall file a report in accordance with the provisions of the plan of operation indicating the amount of surcharges it has collected.
(A) Member insurers who collect surcharges in excess of premium charges paid in the preceding year pursuant to Section 1063.5 shall remit the excess to the association as an additional premium within 30 days after the association has determined the amount of the excess recoupment and given notice to the member insurer of that amount. The excess shall be applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(B) Member insurers who report surcharge collections that are less than what they paid in the preceding year’s premium charge shall receive reimbursement from the association for the shortfall in surcharge collection.
(c) (1) The plan of operation may permit a member insurer to omit collection of the surcharge from its insureds when the expense of collecting the surcharge would exceed the amount of the surcharge.
(2) A member insurer electing to omit collecting surcharges from any of its insureds shall not be entitled to any reimbursement from the association pursuant to subdivision (b).
(3) However, nothing in this section shall relieve the member insurer of its obligation to recoup the amount of surcharge otherwise collectible.
(d) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017.
r1 score is: 
0.1216216216216216
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEGLarge0, tested on CA can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law prohibits an employer from discharging or in any manner discriminating or retaliating against an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking for taking time off from work for specified purposes related to addressing the domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. Existing law provides that any employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge, demoted, suspended, or in any manner discriminated or retaliated against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because the employee has taken time off for those purposes is entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement for lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the employer, as well as appropriate equitable relief, and is allowed to file a complaint with the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement within the Department of Industrial Relations. Existing law establishes the Labor Commissioner as the head of the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement.
This bill would require employers to inform each employee of his or her rights established under those laws by providing specific information in writing to new employees upon hire and to other employees upon request. The bill would also require the Labor Commissioner, on or before July 1, 2017, to develop a form an employer may elect to use to comply with these provisions and to post it on the commissioner’s Internet Web site. Employers would not be required to comply with the notice of rights requirement until the commissioner posts the form.
produced summary is: 
(a) In addition to the requirements and prohibitions imposed on employees pursuant to Section 230, an employer with 25 or more employees shall not discharge, or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against, an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking for taking time off from work for any of the following purposes: (1) To seek medical attention for injuries caused by domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. (c) An employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge, demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because the employee has taken time off for a purpose set forth in subdivision (a) is entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement for lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the employer, as well as appropriate equitable relief.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 230.1 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
230.1.
(a) In addition to the requirements and prohibitions imposed on employees pursuant to Section 230, an employer with 25 or more employees shall not discharge, or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against, an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking for taking time off from work for any of the following purposes:
(1) To seek medical attention for injuries caused by domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(2) To obtain services from a domestic violence shelter, program, or rape crisis center as a result of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(3) To obtain psychological counseling related to an experience of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(4) To participate in safety planning and take other actions to increase safety from future domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including temporary or permanent relocation.
(b) (1) As a condition of taking time off for a purpose set forth in subdivision (a), the employee shall give the employer reasonable advance notice of the employee’s intention to take time off, unless the advance notice is not feasible.
(2) When an unscheduled absence occurs, the employer shall not take any action against the employee if the employee, within a reasonable time after the absence, provides a certification to the employer. Certification shall be sufficient in the form of any of the categories described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 230.
(3) To the extent allowed by law and consistent with subparagraph (D) of paragraph (7) of subdivision (f) of Section 230, employers shall maintain the confidentiality of any employee requesting leave under subdivision (a).
(c) An employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge, demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because the employee has taken time off for a purpose set forth in subdivision (a) is entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement for lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the employer, as well as appropriate equitable relief. An employer who willfully refuses to rehire, promote, or otherwise restore an employee or former employee who has been determined to be eligible for rehiring or promotion by a grievance procedure or hearing authorized by law is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) (1) An employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge, demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because the employee has exercised his or her rights as set forth in subdivision (a) may file a complaint with the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement of the Department of Industrial Relations pursuant to Section 98.7.
(2) Notwithstanding any time limitation in Section 98.7, an employee may file a complaint with the division based upon a violation of subdivision (a) within one year from the date of occurrence of the violation.
(e) An employee may use vacation, personal leave, or compensatory time off that is otherwise available to the employee under the applicable terms of employment, unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, for time taken off for a purpose specified in subdivision (a). The entitlement of any employee under this section shall not be diminished by any term or condition of a collective bargaining agreement.
(f) This section does not create a right for an employee to take unpaid leave that exceeds the unpaid leave time allowed under, or is in addition to the unpaid leave time permitted by, the federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 2601 et seq.).
(g) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Domestic violence” means any of the types of abuse set forth in Section 6211 of the Family Code, as amended.
(2) “Sexual assault” means any of the crimes set forth in Section 261, 261.5, 262, 265, 266, 266a, 266b, 266c, 266g, 266j, 267, 269, 273.4, 285, 286, 288, 288a, 288.5, 289, or 311.4 of the Penal Code, as amended.
(3) “Stalking” means a crime set forth in Section 646.9 of the Penal Code or Section 1708.7 of the Civil Code.
(h) (1) Employers shall inform each employee of his or her rights established under this section and subdivisions (c), (e), and (f) of Section 230 in writing. The information shall be provided to new employees upon hire and to other employees upon request.
(2) The Labor Commissioner shall develop a form that an employer may use to comply with the notice requirements in paragraph (1). The form shall set forth the rights and duties of employers and employees under this section in clear and concise language. The Labor Commissioner shall post the form on the commissioner’s Internet Web site to make it available to employers who are required to comply with this section. If an employer elects not to use the form developed by the Labor Commissioner, the notice provided by the employer to the employees shall be substantially similar in content and clarity to the form developed by the Labor Commissioner. The Labor Commissioner shall develop the form and post it in accordance with this paragraph on or before July 1, 2017.
(3) Employers shall not be required to comply with paragraph (1) until the Labor Commissioner posts the form on the commissioner’s Internet Web site in accordance with paragraph (2).
r1 score is: 
0.6342710997442454
==================================
target summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law and the Corporation Tax Law allow various credits against the taxes imposed by those laws.
This bill, for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
would allow a credit under those laws to an employer who pays a qualified employee a wage equal to or exceeding the state minimum wage during the taxable year, as provided. The bill would define a qualified employee as an individual with a disability who may be paid a special minimum wage under existing state or federal law. The credit would be allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the hours worked by the qualified employee.
The bill would require the Franchise Tax Board to submit a report containing specified data relating to these credits to the Legislature by June 1, 2022.
This bill would take effect immediately as a tax levy.
produced summary is: 
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, there shall be allowed a credit against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year. (b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 17053.75 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
17053.75.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified employer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 23675 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001). For purposes of this section, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership or “S” Corporation.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the net “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 23675.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 23675 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
23675.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “tax,” as defined by Section 23036, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified taxpayer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 17053.75 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001). For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 17053.75.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 3.
It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to comply with the requirements of Section
41.
41 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
SEC. 4.
This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of Article IV of the
California
Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
r1 score is: 
0.6217228464419476
==================================
target summary is: 
The Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 authorizes an aggrieved employee to bring a civil action to recover specified civil penalties, that would otherwise be assessed and collected by the Labor and Workforce Development Agency, on behalf of the employee and other current or former employees for the violation of certain provisions affecting employees. The act authorizes a court to exercise the same discretion to assess a civil penalty as the agency, subject to the same limitations and conditions. The act also authorizes a court, in any action by an aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty, to award a lesser amount than the maximum civil penalty amount specified by the act if, based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, to do otherwise would result in an award that is unjust, arbitrary and oppressive, or confiscatory.
This bill would authorize a court to dismiss an action as to an aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty, if, after notice and hearing, the court finds that the aggrieved employee suffered no appreciable physical or economic harm.
produced summary is: 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any provision of this code that provides for a civil penalty to be assessed and collected by the Labor and Workforce Development Agency or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, for a violation of this code, may, as an alternative, be recovered through a civil action brought by an aggrieved employee on behalf of himself or herself and other current or former employees pursuant to the procedures specified in Section 2699.3. (e) (1) For purposes of this part, whenever the Labor and Workforce Development Agency, or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, has discretion to assess a civil penalty, a court is authorized to exercise the same discretion, subject to the same limitations and conditions, to assess a civil penalty. (2) In any action by an aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty available under subdivision (a) or (f), a court may award a lesser amount than the maximum civil penalty amount specified by this part if, based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, to do otherwise would result in an award that is unjust, arbitrary and oppressive, or confiscatory.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 2699 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
2699.
(a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of
law, any provision of this code that provides for a civil penalty to be assessed and collected by the Labor and Workforce Development Agency or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, for a violation of this code, may, as an alternative, be recovered through a civil action brought by an aggrieved employee on behalf of himself or herself and other current or former employees pursuant to the procedures specified in Section 2699.3.
(b) For purposes of this part, “person” has the same meaning as defined in Section 18.
(c) For purposes of this part, “aggrieved employee” means any person who was employed by the alleged violator and against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed.
(d) For purposes of this part, “cure” means that the employer abates each violation alleged by any aggrieved employee, the employer is in compliance with the underlying statutes as specified in the notice required by this part, and any aggrieved employee is made whole. A violation of paragraph (6) or (8) of subdivision (a) of Section 226 shall only be considered cured upon a showing that the employer has provided a fully compliant, itemized wage statement to each aggrieved employee for each pay period for the three-year period prior to the date of the written notice sent pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 2699.3.
(e) (1) For purposes of this part, whenever the Labor and Workforce Development Agency, or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, has discretion to assess a civil penalty, a court is authorized to exercise the same discretion, subject to the same limitations and conditions, to assess a civil penalty.
(2) In any action by an aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty available under subdivision (a) or (f), a court may award a lesser amount than the maximum civil penalty amount specified by this part if, based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, to do otherwise would result in an award that is unjust, arbitrary and oppressive, or confiscatory.
(3) In any action by an aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty available under subdivision (a) or (f), if, after notice and hearing, the court finds that an employee suffered no appreciable physical or economic harm, the court may dismiss the action as to that employee.
(f) For all provisions of this code except those for which a civil penalty is specifically provided, there is established a civil penalty for a violation of these provisions, as follows:
(1) If, at the time of the alleged violation, the person does not employ one or more employees, the civil penalty is five hundred dollars ($500).
(2) If, at the time of the alleged violation, the person employs one or more employees, the civil penalty is one hundred dollars ($100) for each aggrieved employee per pay period for the initial violation and two hundred dollars ($200) for each aggrieved employee per pay period for each subsequent violation.
(3) If the alleged violation is a failure to act by the Labor and Workplace Development Agency, or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, there shall be no civil penalty.
(g) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), an aggrieved employee may recover the civil penalty described in subdivision (f) in a civil action pursuant to the procedures specified in Section 2699.3 filed on behalf of himself or herself and other current or former employees against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed. Any employee who prevails in any action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. Nothing in this part shall operate to limit an employee’s right to pursue or recover other remedies available under state or federal law, either separately or concurrently with an action taken under this part.
(2) No action shall be brought under this part for any violation of a posting, notice, agency reporting, or filing requirement of this code, except where the filing or reporting requirement involves mandatory payroll or workplace injury reporting.
(h) No action may be brought under this section by an aggrieved employee if the agency or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, on the same facts and theories, cites a person within the timeframes set forth in Section 2699.3 for a violation of the same section or sections of the Labor Code under which the aggrieved employee is attempting to recover a civil penalty on behalf of himself or herself or others or initiates a proceeding pursuant to Section 98.3.
(i) Except as provided in subdivision (j), civil penalties recovered by aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws and education of employers and employees about their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the agency for those purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved employees.
(j) Civil penalties recovered under paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) shall be distributed to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws and education of employers and employees about their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the agency for those purposes.
(k) Nothing contained in this part is intended to alter or otherwise affect the exclusive remedy provided by the workers’ compensation provisions of this code for liability against an employer for the compensation for any injury to or death of an employee arising out of and in the course of employment.
(l) The superior court shall review and approve any penalties sought as part of a proposed settlement agreement pursuant to this part.
(m) This section shall not apply to the recovery of administrative and civil penalties in connection with the workers’ compensation law as contained in Division 1 (commencing with Section 50) and Division 4 (commencing with Section 3200), including, but not limited to, Sections 129.5 and 132a.
(n) The agency or any of its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, or agencies may promulgate regulations to implement this part.
r1 score is: 
0.680628272251309
==================================
