Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG^2 tested on CA, can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law provides for the administration and operation of juvenile court schools by the county board of education.
This bill would express the Legislature’s intent that juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study that prepares pupils for high school graduation and career entry and fulfills the requirements for admission to the California State University and the University of California.
Existing law prescribes the course of study a pupil is required to complete while in grades 9 to 12, inclusive, in order to receive a diploma of graduation, and authorizes the governing board of a school district to prescribe other coursework requirements that are in addition to the statewide requirements. Existing law exempts pupils in foster care and pupils who are homeless children or youths from local graduation requirements and also requires a school district and county office of education to accept coursework satisfactorily completed by those pupils while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school.
This bill would make that exemption and requirement to accept coursework satisfactorily completed applicable to former juvenile court school pupils, as defined. The bill would also require a county office of education to issue a diploma of graduation to a pupil who completes statewide coursework requirements for graduation while attending a juvenile court school but does not complete coursework and other requirements that are in addition to the statewide graduation requirements. By placing additional requirements on school districts and county offices of education, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain cidden">
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires the county board of education to adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools. This bill would instead require the county board of education to adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.051197357555739
==================================
target summary is: 
The Construction-Related Accessibility Standards Compliance Act establishes standards for making new construction and existing facilities accessible to persons with disabilities, including inspections by private persons or building inspectors who are certified access specialists (CASps), and provides for construction-related accessibility claims for violations of those standards. That act requires a local agency, commencing January 1, 2014, to employ or retain a sufficient number of building inspectors who are CASps to conduct permitting and plan check services to review for compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards by a place of public accommodation with respect to new construction. The act requires, if a local agency employs or retains 2 or more CASps, that at least
half
one-half
of the CASps be building inspectors who are CASps.
This bill would require, commencing January 1, 2021, that all building inspectors employed or retained by a local agency who conduct permitting and plan check services to review for compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards by a place of public accommodation with respect to new construction or renovations, including, but not limited to, projects relating to tenant improvements that may impact access, be CASps. The bill would also require all new employees employed or retained by a local agency on or after January 1, 2018, and who will conduct permitting and plan check services to review for compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards by a place of public accommodation, to be CASps within
24
36
months of their initial date of employment. By adding to the duties of a local entity, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
Existing law requires the State Architect to establish a program for voluntary certification by the state of any person who meets specified criteria as a CASp with respect to access to buildings for persons with disabilities and to determine minimum criteria for certification.
This bill would require the State Architect, on or before January 1, 2018, to commence testing and certification of building inspectors as CASps, as specified.
Until December 31, 2018, existing law requires any applicant for a local business license or equivalent instrument or permit, or renewal of a local business license or equivalent instrument or permit, to pay an additional state fee of $1 for that license, instrument, or permit. Under existing law, the city, county, or city and county that collected the fee retains 70% of the fee, and the remaining 30% of the fee is deposited into the Disability Access and Education Revolving Fund, a continuously appropriated fund.
This bill, from January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, would increase that state fee to $4 and would require any applicant for a building permit in a city, county, or city and county that does not issue business licenses or an equivalent instrument or permit to pay an additional fee of $4 for that building permit. Beginning January 1, 2020, those fees would be reduced to $1. The bill, from January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, would increase the percentage of the fee retained by a local agency to 90% and the remaining 10% would be deposited into the Disability Access and Education Revolving Fund. Beginning January 1, 2020, those percentages would revert to 70% and 30%, respectively. By increasing revenue to a continuously appropriated fund, increasing the fee, extending the period of time during which the fee will be collected, and imposing an additional fee, this bill would make an appropriation. The bill would make an appropriation by authorizing local government entities to retain an increased percentage of the increased fee. The bill would require that the moneys retained by a local agency be placed in a special fund established by the local agency, to be known as the “CASp Certification and Training Fund.” The bill would require that fees collected in a CASp Certification and Training Fund be used for increased certified access specialist training and certification in the local jurisdiction, thereby making an appropriation by expanding the purposes for which the retained fee moneys are required to be spent.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
produced summary is: 
Existing law provides for the certification and regulation of access specialists by the State Building Commission. This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to this provision.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 55.53 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
55.53.
(a) For purposes of this part, a certified access specialist (CASp) shall, upon completion of the inspection of a site, comply with the following:
(1) For a site that meets applicable standards, if the CASp determines the site meets all applicable construction-related accessibility standards, the CASp shall provide a written inspection report to the requesting party that includes both of the following:
(A) An identification and description of the inspected structures and areas of the site.
(B) A signed and dated statement that includes both of the following:
(i) A statement that, in the opinion of the CASp, the inspected structures and areas of the site meet construction-related accessibility standards. The statement shall clearly indicate whether the determination of the CASp includes an assessment of readily achievable barrier removal.
(ii) If corrections were made as a result of the CASp inspection, an itemized list of all corrections and dates of completion.
(2) For a site that has been inspected by a CASp, if the CASp determines that corrections are needed to the site in order for the site to meet all applicable construction-related accessibility standards, the CASp shall provide a signed and dated written inspection report to the requesting party that includes all of the following:
(A) An identification and description of the inspected structures and areas of the site.
(B) The date of the inspection.
(C) A statement that, in the opinion of the CASp, the inspected structures and areas of the site need correction to meet construction-related accessibility standards. This statement shall clearly indicate whether the determination of the CASp includes an assessment of readily achievable barrier removal.
(D) An identification and description of the structures or areas of the site that need correction and the correction needed.
(E) A schedule of completion for each of the corrections within a reasonable timeframe.
(3) The CASp shall provide, within 30 days of the date of the inspection of a business that qualifies for the provisions of subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (g) of Section 55.56, a copy of a report prepared pursuant to that subparagraph to the business.
(4) The CASp shall file, within 10 days of inspecting a business pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (g) of Section 55.56, a notice with the State Architect for listing on the State Architect’s Internet Web site, as provided by subdivision (d) of Section 4459.7 of the Government Code, indicating that the CASp has inspected the business, the name and address of the business, the date of the filing, the date of the inspection of the business, the name and license number of the CASp, and a description of the structure or area inspected by the CASp.
(5) The CASp shall post the notice described in paragraph (4), in a form prescribed by the State Architect, in a conspicuous location within five feet of all public entrances to the building on the date of the inspection and instruct the business to keep it in place until the earlier of either of the following:
(A) One hundred twenty days after the date of the inspection.
(B) The date when all of the construction-related violations in the structure or area inspected by the CASp are corrected.
(b) For purposes of this section, in determining whether the site meets applicable construction-related accessibility standards when there is a conflict or difference between a state and federal provision, standard, or regulation, the state provision, standard, or regulation shall apply unless the federal provision, standard, or regulation is more protective of accessibility rights.
(c) Every CASp who conducts an inspection of a place of public accommodation shall, upon completing the inspection of the site, provide the building owner or tenant who requested the inspection with the following notice, which the State Architect shall make available as a form on the State Architect’s Internet Web site:
NOTICE TO PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER/TENANT:
YOU ARE ADVISED TO KEEP IN YOUR RECORDS ANY WRITTEN INSPECTION REPORT AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTATION CONCERNING YOUR PROPERTY SITE THAT IS GIVEN TO YOU BY A CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST.
IF YOU BECOME A DEFENDANT IN A LAWSUIT THAT INCLUDES A CLAIM CONCERNING A SITE INSPECTED BY A CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST, YOU MAY BE ENTITLED TO A COURT STAY (AN ORDER TEMPORARILY STOPPING ANY LAWSUIT) OF THE CLAIM AND AN EARLY EVALUATION CONFERENCE.
IN ORDER TO REQUEST THE STAY AND EARLY EVALUATION CONFERENCE, YOU WILL NEED TO VERIFY THAT A CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST HAS INSPECTED THE SITE THAT IS THE SUBJECT OF THE CLAIM. YOU WILL ALSO BE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE THE COURT AND THE PLAINTIFF WITH THE COPY OF A WRITTEN INSPECTION REPORT BY THE CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST, AS SET FORTH IN CIVIL CODE SECTION 55.54. THE APPLICATION FORM AND INFORMATION ON HOW TO REQUEST A STAY AND EARLY EVALUATION CONFERENCE MAY BE OBTAINED AT www.courts.ca.gov/selfhelp-start.htm.
YOU ARE ENTITLED TO REQUEST, FROM A CERTIFIED ACCESS SPECIALIST WHO HAS CONDUCTED AN INSPECTION OF YOUR PROPERTY, A WRITTEN INSPECTION REPORT AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION AS SET FORTH IN CIVIL CODE SECTION 55.53. YOU ARE ALSO ENTITLED TO REQUEST THE ISSUANCE OF A DISABILITY ACCESS INSPECTION CERTIFICATE, WHICH YOU MAY POST ON YOUR PROPERTY.


(d) (1) Commencing July 1, 2010, a local agency shall employ or retain at least one building inspector who is a certified access specialist. The certified access specialist shall provide consultation to the local agency, permit applicants, and members of the public on compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards with respect to inspections of a place of public accommodation that relate to permitting, plan checks, or new construction, including, but not limited to, inspections relating to tenant improvements that may impact access. If a local agency employs or retains two or more certified access specialists to comply with this subdivision, at least one-half of the certified access specialists shall be building inspectors who are certified access specialists.
(2) (A) Commencing January 1, 2021, all building inspectors employed or retained by a local agency who conduct permitting and plan check services to review for compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards by a place of public accommodation with respect to new construction or renovation, including, but not limited to, projects relating to tenant improvements that may impact access, shall be certified access specialists.
(B) New employees employed or retained by a local agency on or after January 1, 2018, and who will conduct permitting and plan check services to review for compliance with state construction-related accessibility standards by a place of public accommodation shall be certified access specialists within
24
36
months of their initial date of employment.
(3) If a permit applicant or member of the public requests consultation from a certified access specialist, the local agency may charge an amount limited to a reasonable hourly rate, an estimate of which shall be provided upon request in advance of the consultation. A local government may additionally charge or increase permitting, plan check, or inspection fees to the extent necessary to offset the costs of complying with this subdivision. Any revenues generated from an hourly or other charge or fee increase under this subdivision shall be used solely to offset the costs incurred to comply with this subdivision. A CASp inspection pursuant to subdivision (a) by a building inspector who is a certified access specialist shall be treated equally for legal and evidentiary purposes as an inspection conducted by a private CASp. Nothing in this subdivision shall preclude permit applicants or any other person with a legal interest in the property from retaining a private CASp at any time.
(e) (1) Every CASp who completes an inspection of a place of public accommodation shall, upon a determination that the site meets applicable standards pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) or is inspected by a CASp pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), provide the building owner or tenant requesting the inspection with a numbered disability access inspection certificate indicating that the site has undergone inspection by a certified access specialist. The disability access inspection certificate shall be dated and signed by the CASp inspector, and shall contain the inspector’s name and license number. Upon issuance of a certificate, the CASp shall record the issuance of the numbered certificate, the name and address of the recipient, and the type of report issued pursuant to subdivision (a) in a record book the CASp shall maintain for that purpose.
(2) Beginning March 1, 2009, the State Architect shall make available for purchase by any local building department or CASp sequentially numbered disability access inspection certificates that are printed with a watermark or other feature to deter forgery and that comply with the information requirements specified in subdivision (a).
(3) The disability access inspection certificate may be posted on the premises of the place of public accommodation, unless, following the date of inspection, the inspected site has been modified or construction has commenced to modify the inspected site in a way that may impact compliance with construction-related accessibility standards.
(f) Nothing in this section or any other law is intended to require a property owner or tenant to hire a CASp. A property owner’s or tenant’s election not to hire a CASp shall not be admissible to prove that person’s lack of intent to comply with the law.
SEC. 2.
Section 4459.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:
4459.5.
(a) The State Architect shall establish and publicize a program for voluntary certification by the state of any person who meets specified criteria as a certified access specialist. No later than January 1, 2005, the State Architect shall determine minimum criteria a person is required to meet to be a certified access specialist, which may include knowledge sufficient to review, inspect, or advocate universal design requirements, completion of specified training, and testing on standards governing access to buildings, including but not limited to housing, for persons with disabilities.
(b) The State Architect may implement the program described in subdivision (a) with startup funds derived, as a loan, from the reserve of the Public School Planning, Design, and Construction Review Revolving Fund, upon appropriation by the Legislature. That loan shall be repaid when sufficient fees have been collected pursuant to Section 4459.8.
(c) The State Architect is authorized to work with various training organizations to ensure an adequate level of training and educational efforts are provided on a statewide basis to prepare individuals to become access specialists as required by paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 55.53 of the Civil Code.
(d) On or before January 1, 2018, the State Architect shall commence testing and certification of individuals as certified access specialists at a level commensurate with the demand attributed to compliance with paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 55.53 of the Civil Code.
SEC. 3.
Section 4467 of the Government Code is amended to read:
4467.
(a) (1) (A) On and after January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, any applicant for a local business license or equivalent instrument or permit, and
from
any applicant for the renewal of a business license or equivalent instrument or permit, shall pay an additional fee of four dollars ($4) for that license, instrument, or permit, which shall be collected by the city, county, or city and county that issues the license, instrument, or permit.
(B) On and after January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, in any city, county, or city and county that does not issue business licenses or an equivalent instrument or permit, any applicant for a building permit shall pay an additional fee of four dollars ($4) for that building permit, which shall be collected by the city, county, or city and county that issued the building permit.
(2) (A) On and after January 1, 2020, any applicant for a local business license or equivalent instrument or permit, and
from
any applicant for the renewal of a business license or equivalent instrument or permit, shall pay an additional fee of one dollar ($1) for that license, instrument, or permit, which shall be collected by the city, county, or city and county that issues the license, instrument, or permit.
(B) On and after January 1, 2020, in any city, county, or city and county that does not issue business licenses or an equivalent instrument or permit, any applicant for a building permit shall pay an additional fee of one dollar ($1) for that building permit, which shall be collected by the city, county, or city and county that issued the building permit.
(b) On and after January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, the city, county, or city and county shall retain 90 percent, and on and after January 1, 2020, the city, county, or city and county shall retain 70 percent, of the fees collected under this section, of which up to 5 percent of the retained moneys may be used for related administrative costs of this chapter. The remaining moneys shall be placed by the city, county, or city and county in a special fund established by the city, county, or city and county, to be known as the “CASp Certification and Training Fund.” The fees collected in a CASp Certification and Training Fund shall be used for increased certified access specialist training and certification in that local jurisdiction and to facilitate compliance with construction-related accessibility requirements. The highest priority shall be given to the training and retention of certified access specialists to meet the needs of the public in the jurisdiction as provided in Section 55.53 of the Civil Code.
(c) On and after January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2019, the remaining 10 percent of all fees collected under this section, and on and after January 1, 2020, the remaining 30 percent of all fees collected under this section, shall be transmitted on a quarterly basis to the Division of the State Architect for deposit in the Disability Access and Education Revolving Fund established under Sections 4465 and 4470. The funds shall be transmitted within 15 days of the last day of the fiscal quarter. The Division of the State Architect shall develop and post on its Internet Web site a standard reporting form for use by all local jurisdictions. Up to 75 percent of the collected funds in the Disability Access and Education Revolving Fund shall be used to establish and maintain oversight of the CASp program and to moderate the expense of CASp certification and testing.
(d) Each city, county, or city and county shall make an annual report, commencing March 1, 2014, to the Division of the State Architect of the total fees collected in the previous calendar year and of its distribution, including the moneys spent on administrative services, the activities undertaken and moneys spent to increase CASp training, certification, and services, the activities undertaken and moneys spent to fund programs to facilitate accessibility compliance, and the moneys transmitted to the Disability Access and Education Revolving Fund.
SEC. 4.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.0576671035386631
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law prescribes definitions and requirements for certain civil actions relating to construction defect litigation and limits claims to violations of specified standards.
This bill would make a nonsubstantive change to these provisions.
produced summary is: 
Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 896 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
896.
In
any
an
action seeking recovery of damages arising out of, or related to deficiencies in, the residential construction, design, specifications, surveying, planning, supervision, testing, or observation of construction, a builder, and to the extent set forth in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 910), a general contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, individual product manufacturer, or design professional, shall, except as specifically set forth in this title, be liable for, and the claimant’s claims or causes of action shall be limited to violation of, the following standards, except as specifically set forth in this title. This title applies to original construction intended to be sold as an individual dwelling unit. As to condominium conversions, this title does not apply to or does not supersede any other statutory or common law.
(a) With respect to water issues:
(1) A door shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through the door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, if any.
(2) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow water to pass beyond, around, or through the window, patio door, or deck door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(3) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(4) Roofs, roofing systems, chimney caps, and ventilation components shall not allow water to enter the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers located within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, and sheathing, if any.
(5) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow water to pass into the adjacent structure. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(6) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow unintended water to pass within the systems themselves and cause damage to the systems. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(7) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(8) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to limit the installation of the type of flooring materials typically used for the particular application.
(9) Hardscape, including paths and patios, irrigation systems, landscaping systems, and drainage systems, that are installed as part of the original construction, shall not be installed in such a way as to cause water or soil erosion to enter into or come in contact with the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(10) Stucco, exterior siding, exterior walls, including, without limitation, exterior framing, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures and the systems of those components and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall be installed in such a way so as not to allow unintended water to pass into the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers of the system, including any internal barriers located within the system itself. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(11) Stucco, exterior siding, and exterior walls shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(12) Retaining and site walls and their associated drainage systems shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through its designed or actual moisture barriers including, without limitation, any internal barriers, so as to cause damage. This standard does not apply to those portions of any wall or drainage system that are designed to have water flow beyond, around, or through them.
(13) Retaining walls and site walls, and their associated drainage systems, shall only allow water to flow beyond, around, or through the areas designated by design.
(14) The lines and components of the plumbing system, sewer system, and utility systems shall not leak.
(15) Plumbing lines, sewer lines, and utility lines shall not corrode so as to impede the useful life of the systems.
(16) Sewer systems shall be installed in such a way as to allow the designated amount of sewage to flow through the system.
(17) Showers, baths, and related waterproofing systems shall not leak water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or the interior of other components.
(18)  The waterproofing system behind or under ceramic tile and tile countertops shall not allow water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or other components so as to cause damage. Ceramic tile systems shall be designed and installed so as to deflect intended water to the waterproofing system.
(b) With respect to structural issues:
(1) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, shall not contain significant cracks or significant vertical displacement.
(2) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs shall not cause the structure, in whole or in part, to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, and underlying soils shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria set by applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for chemical deterioration or corrosion resistance in effect at the time of original construction.
(4) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria for earthquake and wind load resistance, as set forth in the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances in effect at the time of original construction.
(c) With respect to soil issues:
(1) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, damage to the structure built upon the soil or engineered retaining wall.
(2) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, the structure to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Soils shall not cause, in whole or in part, the land upon which no structure is built to become unusable for the purpose represented at the time of original sale by the builder or for the purpose for which that land is commonly used.
(d) With respect to fire protection issues:
(1) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria of the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for fire protection of the occupants in effect at the time of the original construction.
(2) Fireplaces, chimneys, chimney structures, and chimney termination caps shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire outside the fireplace enclosure or chimney.
(3) Electrical and mechanical systems shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire.
(e) With respect to plumbing and sewer issues:
Plumbing and sewer systems shall be installed to operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action may be brought for a violation of this subdivision more than four years after close of escrow.
(f) With respect to electrical system issues:
Electrical systems shall operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this subdivision more than four years from close of escrow.
(g) With respect to issues regarding other areas of construction:
(1) Exterior pathways, driveways, hardscape, sidewalls, sidewalks, and patios installed by the original builder shall not contain cracks that display significant vertical displacement or that are excessive. However, no action shall be brought upon a violation of this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(2) Stucco, exterior siding, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall not contain significant cracks or separations.
(3) (A) To the extent not otherwise covered by these standards, manufactured products, including, but not limited to, windows, doors, roofs, plumbing products and fixtures, fireplaces, electrical fixtures, HVAC units, countertops, cabinets, paint, and appliances shall be installed so as not to interfere with the products’ useful life, if any.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph, “useful life” means a representation of how long a product is warranted or represented, through its limited warranty or any written representations, to last by its manufacturer, including recommended or required maintenance. If there is no representation by a manufacturer, a builder shall install manufactured products so as not to interfere with the product’s utility.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, “manufactured product” means a product that is completely manufactured offsite.
(D) If no useful life representation is made, or if the representation is less than one year, the period shall be no less than one year. If a manufactured product is damaged as a result of a violation of these standards, damage to the product is a recoverable element of damages. This subparagraph does not limit recovery if there has been damage to another building component caused by a manufactured product during the manufactured product’s useful life.
(E) This title does not apply in any action seeking recovery solely for a defect in a manufactured product located within or adjacent to a structure.
(4) Heating shall be installed so as to be capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor in any living space if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted prior to January 1, 2008, or capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor and two feet from exterior walls in all habitable rooms at the design temperature if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted on or before January 1, 2008.
(5) Living space air-conditioning, if any, shall be provided in a manner consistent with the size and efficiency design criteria specified in Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations or its successor.
(6) Attached structures shall be constructed to comply with interunit noise transmission standards set by the applicable government building codes, ordinances, or regulations in effect at the time of the original construction. If there is no applicable code, ordinance, or regulation, this paragraph does not apply. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from the original occupancy of the adjacent unit.
(7) Irrigation systems and drainage shall operate properly so as not to damage landscaping or other external improvements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from close of escrow.
(8) Untreated wood posts shall not be installed in contact with soil so as to cause unreasonable decay to the wood based upon the finish grade at the time of original construction. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(9) Untreated steel fences and adjacent components shall be installed so as to prevent unreasonable corrosion. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(10) Paint and stains shall be applied in such a manner so as not to cause deterioration of the building surfaces for the length of time specified by the paint or stain manufacturers’ representations, if any. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than five years from close of escrow.
(11) Roofing materials shall be installed so as to avoid materials falling from the roof.
(12) The landscaping systems shall be installed in such a manner so as to survive for not less than one year. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(13) Ceramic tile and tile backing shall be installed in such a manner that the tile does not detach.
(14) Dryer ducts shall be installed and terminated pursuant to manufacturer installation requirements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(15) Structures shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to impair the occupants’ safety because they contain public health hazards as determined by a duly authorized public health official, health agency, or governmental entity having jurisdiction. This paragraph does not limit recovery for any damages caused by a violation of any other paragraph of this section on the grounds that the damages do not constitute a health hazard.
r1 score is: 
0.0535714285714285
==================================
target summary is: 
Under existing law, a tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the executor or administrator or his or her estate, is guilty of unlawful detainer when he or she continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, of the property or any part of the property, after the expiration of the term for which it is let to him or her, except as specified. Under existing law, access to limited civil case records filed in an unlawful detainer action is restricted to (1) parties to the action, (2) certain people who provide the court clerk with specified information about the parties to the action, (3) any person by order of the court on a showing of good cause, and (4) any other person 60 days after the complaint has been filed, unless the defendant prevails in the action within 60 days after the filing of the complaint, in which case access is limited to the other parties allowed access, as described above.
This bill would instead provide that access to limited civil case records filed in an unlawful detainer action is restricted, for purposes of (4), as described above, (1) to any person by order of the court if judgment is entered for the plaintiff after trial more than 60 days since the filing of the complaint, and (2) to any other person 60 days after the complaint has been filed if the plaintiff prevails in the action within 60 days of the filing of the complaint. The bill would provide that if a default or default judgment is set aside more than 60 days after the complaint was filed, the court file access restrictions, as described above, shall apply as if the complaint had been filed on the date the default or the default judgment is set aside. The bill would authorize the court to bar access to court records in the action if the parties so stipulate.
Existing law requires a complaint filed in an unlawful detainer proceeding to include certain information and requires a defendant to answer the complaint, as specified, within 5 days of being served with a summons and the complaint, unless the court orders otherwise for good cause shown. Existing law also requires proof of service of a summons to be filed in a civil action, including in an unlawful detainer proceeding.
This bill would permit a court to dismiss an unlawful detainer proceeding without prejudice if proof of service of the summons has not been filed within 60 days of the complaint’s filing.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to these procedures.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) It is the policy of the state to promote open access to public records. It is in the interest of the public to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that there is open public access to court records, including civil case records.
(b) It is the policy of the state that access to public records be limited or restricted only under compelling circumstances.
(c) With the enactment of Chapter 1007 of the Statutes of 1991, the Legislature began restricting public access to civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings. Under current law, with limited exceptions, civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings are unavailable to the public for a period of 60 days after filing. Civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings in which the defendant prevails within 60 days of filing are permanently unavailable to the public.
(d) The state has a housing crisis that requires revising the current restrictions on public access to civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings. More than four decades have passed since the California Supreme Court first observed, in Green v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 625, “a scarcity of adequate low cost housing in virtually every urban setting [in California].” Yet the shortage of affordable housing for low-income tenants has only grown. Median monthly rents in the state are now approximately 50 percent higher than the national average, but high prices have failed to spur sufficient housing construction to meet demand. As a result, households in the state in the bottom quarter of the income distribution spend an average of 67 percent of their income on housing. The recent economic and foreclosure crises have only exacerbated the challenges that low-income households face in securing affordable housing.
(e) The difficulty of securing affordable housing in competitive rental markets is also worsened by the existing law governing access to civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings. Specifically, once unlawful detainer civil case records become public, tenant screening companies and credit reporting agencies capture and publish personal identifying information regarding tenants named as defendants in those records. This information appears in published lists, known as unlawful detainer registries, and on tenants’ credit reports. So long as it is accurate, the fact that a tenant was once sued for unlawful detainer is publicly available for up to seven years and cannot be challenged under federal or state laws governing consumer credit reporting.
(f) The names of thousands of innocent tenants whose cases are resolved only after the 60-day deadline appear on unlawful detainer registries. Many of these tenants successfully settle, secure a dismissal, or win at trial, and would have escaped negative credit reporting if only they had prevailed before the deadline. In other instances, unlawful detainer complaints are filed against tenants but never served. Because these complaints are never dismissed, the tenant’s name is publicly released after 60 days and negative credit reporting ensues. Because landlords, who are attempting to decide between numerous applicants for scarce rental housing, rely on unlawful detainer registries and on credit reports, landlords often choose not to rent to tenants who appear on these registries, even if the tenants were eventually found innocent of unlawful detainer. As a result, given the statewide housing shortage, these tenants may be shut out of rental markets for up to seven years through no fault of their own.
(g) This act strikes a just balance between ensuring open access to public records and protecting the credit and reputation of innocent tenants. This act also ensures that landlords will have access to timely and more accurate information regarding prospective tenants. This act is a response to the state’s ongoing affordable housing crisis and is necessary to prevent tenants from being inadvertently denied an opportunity to secure housing simply as a result of being named in an unlawful detainer lawsuit.
SEC. 2.
It is the intent of the Legislature to amend existing statutes regarding open access to public records by making permanently unavailable to the public civil case records in unlawful detainer proceedings in which the plaintiff does not prevail within 60 days of filing instead of unlawful detainer proceedings in which the defendant prevails within 60 days of filing.
SEC. 3.
Section 1161.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
1161.2.
(a) (1) The clerk shall allow access to limited civil case records filed under this chapter, including the court file, index, and register of actions, only as follows:
(A) To a party to the action, including a party’s attorney.
(B) To a person who provides the clerk with the names of at least one plaintiff and one defendant and the address of the premises, including the apartment or unit number, if any.
(C) To a resident of the premises who provides the clerk with the name of one of the parties or the case number and shows proof of residency.
(D) To a person by order of the court, which may be granted ex parte, on a showing of good cause.
(E) To any person by order of the court if judgment is entered for the plaintiff after trial more than 60 days since the filing of the complaint. The court shall issue the order upon issuing judgment for the plaintiff.
(F) Except as provided in subparagraph (G), to any other person 60 days after the complaint has been filed if the plaintiff prevails in the action within 60 days of the filing of the complaint, in which case the clerk shall allow access to any court records in the action. If a default or default judgment is set aside more than 60 days after the complaint has been filed, this section shall apply as if the complaint had been filed on the date the default or default judgment is set aside.
(G) In the case of a complaint involving residential property based on Section 1161a as indicated in the caption of the complaint, as required in subdivision (c) of Section 1166, to any other person, if 60 days have elapsed since the complaint was filed with the court, and, as of that date, judgment against all defendants has been entered for the plaintiff, after a trial.
(2) This section shall not be construed to prohibit the court from issuing an order that bars access to the court record in an action filed under this chapter if the parties to the action so stipulate.
(b) (1) For purposes of this section, “good cause” includes, but is not limited to, both of the following:
(A) The gathering of newsworthy facts by a person described in Section 1070 of the Evidence Code.
(B) The gathering of evidence by a party to an unlawful detainer action solely for the purpose of making a request for judicial notice pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 452 of the Evidence Code.
(2) It is the intent of the Legislature that a simple procedure be established to request the ex parte order described in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).
(c) Upon the filing of a case so restricted, the court clerk shall mail notice to each defendant named in the action. The notice shall be mailed to the address provided in the complaint. The notice shall contain a statement that an unlawful detainer complaint (eviction action) has been filed naming that party as a defendant, and that access to the court file will be delayed for 60 days except to a party, an attorney for one of the parties, or any other person who (1) provides to the clerk the names of at least one plaintiff and one defendant in the action and provides to the clerk the address, including any applicable apartment, unit, or space number, of the subject premises, or (2) provides to the clerk the name of one of the parties in the action or the case number and can establish through proper identification that he or she lives at the subject premises. The notice shall also contain a statement that access to the court index, register of actions, or other records is not permitted until 60 days after the complaint is filed, except pursuant to an order upon a showing of good cause for access. The notice shall contain on its face the following information:
(1) The name and telephone number of the county bar association.
(2) The name and telephone number of any entity that requests inclusion on the notice and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the court that it has been certified by the State Bar of California as a lawyer referral service and maintains a panel of attorneys qualified in the practice of landlord-tenant law pursuant to the minimum standards for a lawyer referral service established by the State Bar of California and Section 6155 of the Business and Professions Code.
(3) The following statement:


“The State Bar of California certifies lawyer referral services in California and publishes a list of certified lawyer referral services organized by county. To locate a lawyer referral service in your county, go to the State Bar’s Internet Web site at www.calbar.ca.gov or call 1-866-442-2529.”


(4) The name and telephone number of an office or offices funded by the federal Legal Services Corporation or qualified legal services projects that receive funds distributed pursuant to Section 6216 of the Business and Professions Code that provide legal services to low-income persons in the county in which the action is filed. The notice shall state that these telephone numbers may be called for legal advice regarding the case. The notice shall be issued between 24 and 48 hours of the filing of the complaint, excluding weekends and holidays. One copy of the notice shall be addressed to “all occupants” and mailed separately to the subject premises. The notice shall not constitute service of the summons and complaint.
(d) Notwithstanding any other law, the court shall charge an additional fee of fifteen dollars ($15) for filing a first appearance by the plaintiff. This fee shall be added to the uniform filing fee for actions filed under this chapter.
(e) This section does not apply to a case that seeks to terminate a mobilehome park tenancy if the statement of the character of the proceeding in the caption of the complaint clearly indicates that the complaint seeks termination of a mobilehome park tenancy.
(f) This section does not alter any provision of the Evidence Code.
SEC. 4.
Section 1167.1 is added to the Code of Civil Procedure, to read:
1167.1.
If proof of service of the summons has not been filed within 60 days of the complaint’s filing, the court may dismiss the action without prejudice.
r1 score is: 
0.0647948164146868
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law creates the California Insurance Guarantee Association (CIGA) and requires all insurers admitted to transact specified insurance lines in this state to become members. Each time an insurer becomes insolvent, to the extent necessary to secure funds for payment of covered claims of that insolvent insurer and also for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, CIGA is required to collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations, as specified.
This bill, among other things, would no longer require an insurer to become insolvent in order for CIGA to collect premium payments from the member insurers and would require CIGA to collect premiums in order to secure funds for the payment of its administrative expenses.
(2) Under existing law, CIGA is required to be a party in interest in all proceedings involving a covered claim, and has the same rights as the insolvent insurer would have had if not in liquidation, but CIGA has no cause of action against the insureds of the insolvent insurer for any sums it has paid out, except as provided.
This bill would provide that the above-stated provision denying CIGA a cause of action against insureds does not limit CIGA’s right to pursue unpaid reimbursements owed by an employer pursuant to a workers’ compensation insurance policy with a deductible if the employer was obligated to reimburse the insurer for benefits payments and related expenses paid by the insurer or CIGA from a special deposit or from other CIGA funds pursuant to the terms of the policy and related agreements.
(3) Existing law requires that the rate of premium charged be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium, as defined, in the preceding calendar year applicable to specific categories of insurance. The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories are initially based on the written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the Insurance Commissioner and are later adjusted, as provided. Existing law authorizes CIGA to refund any credit due in a specific category of insurance to a member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation, as provided.
This bill would instead require CIGA, with regard to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017, to refund to a member insurer any credit due in a specific category as a result of the adjusted premium calculation.
This bill, with regard to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017, would delete the requirements that the rate of premium charges be initially based on the written premium of each insurer, that the premium charges be adjusted later as provided, and that the member insurer be eligible for a refund of any credit due to that member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation, and would instead require that the rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories be based on the net direct written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner. The bill would also make conforming changes.
(4) Existing law authorizes CIGA to exempt or defer a member insurer from paying the premium charge if the payment would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. Deferred premium charges are required to be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums. These payments are credited against future premium charges to those companies receiving larger premium charges by virtue of the deferment.
This bill would delete the requirement that the payments be credited against future premium charges to those companies receiving larger premium charges by virtue of the deferment.
(5) Existing law requires CIGA’s plan of operations to contain provisions requiring each member insurer to recoup the premium charge paid to CIGA from its insureds over a reasonable length of time by way of a reasonably calculated surcharge on insurance policies to which the provisions of CIGA apply.
This bill would instead require each member insurer to recoup the premium charge from its insureds in the year following the charge. The bill, with regard to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017, among other things, would require the member insurer to file a report in accordance with the provisions of the plan of operation indicating the amount of surcharges it has collected, and would prohibit a member insurer electing to omit collecting surcharges from any of its insureds from being entitled to any reimbursement from CIGA, as specified.
produced summary is: 
Existing law makes a willful violation of the law punishable as a felony. Existing law makes a willful violation of the law punishable as a misdemeanor. Existing law makes a willful violation of the law punishable as a felony. This bill would make a willful violation of the law punishable as a misdemeanor.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1063.2 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
1063.2.
(a) The association shall pay and discharge covered claims, and in connection therewith, pay for or furnish loss adjustment services and defenses of claimants when required by policy provisions. It may do so either directly by itself or through a servicing facility or through a contract for reinsurance and assumption of liabilities by one or more member insurers or through a contract with the liquidator, upon terms satisfactory to the association and to the liquidator, under which payments on covered claims would be made by the liquidator using funds provided by the association.
(b) (1) The association shall be a party in interest in all proceedings involving a covered claim, and shall have the same rights as the insolvent insurer would have had if not in liquidation, including, but not limited to, the right to all of the following:
(A) Appear, defend, and appeal a claim in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(B) Receive notice of, investigate, adjust, compromise, settle, and pay a covered claim.
(C) Investigate, handle, and deny a noncovered claim.
(2) The association shall have no cause of action against the insureds of the insolvent insurer for any sums it has paid out, except as provided by this article.
(3) Nothing in paragraph (2) limits the association’s right to pursue unpaid reimbursements owed by an employer pursuant to a workers’ compensation insurance policy with a deductible if the employer was obligated to reimburse the insurer for benefits payments and related expenses paid by the insurer or the association from a special deposit or from other association funds pursuant to the terms of the policy and related agreements.
(c) (1) If damages against uninsured motorists are recoverable by the claimant from his or her own insurer, the applicable limits of the uninsured motorist coverage shall be a credit against a covered claim payable under this article. Any person having a claim that may be recovered under more than one insurance guaranty association or its equivalent shall seek recovery first from the association of the place of residence of the insured, except that if it is a first-party claim for damage to property with a permanent location, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the permanent location of the property, and if it is a workers’ compensation claim, he or she shall seek recovery first from the association of the residence of the claimant. Any recovery under this article shall be reduced by the amount of recovery from any other insurance guaranty association or its equivalent. A member insurer may recover in subrogation from the association only one-half of any amount paid by that insurer under uninsured motorist coverage for bodily injury or wrongful death (and nothing for a payment for anything else), in those cases where the injured person insured by such an insurer has proceeded under his or her uninsured motorist coverage on the ground that the tortfeasor is uninsured as a result of the insolvency of his or her liability insurer (an insolvent insurer as defined in this article), provided that the member insurer shall waive all rights of subrogation against the tortfeasor. Any amount paid a claimant in excess of the amount authorized by this section may be recovered by action, or other proceeding, brought by the association.
(2) Any claimant having collision coverage on a loss that is covered by the insolvent company’s liability policy shall first proceed against his or her collision carrier. Neither that claimant nor the collision carrier, if it is a member of the association, shall have the right to sue or continue a suit against the insured of the insolvent insurance company for that collision damage.
(d) The association shall have the right to recover from any person who is an affiliate of the insolvent insurer and whose liability obligations to other persons are satisfied in whole or in part by payments made under this article the amount of any covered claim and allocated claims expense paid on behalf of that person pursuant to this article.
(e) Any person having a claim or legal right of recovery under any governmental insurance or guaranty program that is also a covered claim, shall be required to first exhaust his or her right under the program. Any amount payable on a covered claim shall be reduced by the amount of any recovery under the program.
(f) “Covered claims” for unearned premium by lenders under insurance premium finance agreements as defined in Section 673 shall be computed as of the earliest cancellation date of the policy pursuant to Section 673.
(g) “Covered claims” shall not include any judgments against or obligations or liabilities of the insolvent insurer or the commissioner, as liquidator, or otherwise resulting from alleged or proven torts, nor shall any default judgment or stipulated judgment against the insolvent insurer, or against the insured of the insolvent insurer, be binding against the association.
(h) “Covered claims” shall not include any loss adjustment expenses, including adjustment fees and expenses, attorney’s fees and expenses, court costs, interest, and bond premiums, incurred prior to the appointment of a liquidator.
SEC. 2.
Section 1063.5 of the Insurance Code is amended and renumbered, to immediately precede Section 1063.5 of the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.45.
(a) (1) To the extent necessary to secure funds for the association for payment of administrative expenses of the association and covered claims of insolvent insurers and also for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, the association shall collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations.
(2) The association shall allocate its claim payments and costs, incurred or estimated to be incurred, to one or more of the following categories:
(A) Workers’ compensation claims.
(B) Homeowners’ claims and automobile claims, including all of the following:
(i) Automobile material damage.
(ii) Automobile liability (both personal injury and death and property damage).
(iii) Medical payments.
(iv) Uninsured motorist claims.
(C) Claims other than workers’ compensation, homeowners, and automobile, as defined above.
(3) Separate premium payments shall be required for each category.
(4) The premium payments for each category shall be used to pay the claims and costs allocated to that category.
(b) (1) The rate of premium charged shall be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium in the preceding calendar year applicable to that category.
(2) The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories shall initially be based on the written premium of each insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner.
(3) The initial premium shall be adjusted by applying the same rate of premium charge as initially used to each insurer’s written premium as shown on the annual statement for the second year following the year on which the initial premium charge was based.
(4) (A) The difference between the initial premium charge and the adjusted premium charge shall be charged or credited to each member insurer by the association as soon as practical after the filing of the annual statements of the member insurers with the commissioner for the year on which the adjusted premium is based.
(B) Any credit due in a specific category to a member insurer as a result of the adjusted premium calculation shall be refunded to the member insurer.
(c) (1) For purposes of this section, “net direct written premiums” means the amount of gross premiums, less return premiums, received in that calendar year upon business done in this state, other than premiums received for reinsurance.
(2) In cases of a dispute as to the amount of the net direct written premium between the association and one of its member insurers, the written decision of the commissioner shall be final.
(d) (1) The premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct premium written in that category in this state by that member insurer per year, starting on January 1, 2003, until December 31, 2007, and thereafter shall be 1 percent per year, until January 1, 2015.
(2) Commencing January 1, 2015, the premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct written premium unless there are bonds outstanding that were issued pursuant to Article 14.25 (commencing with Section 1063.50) or Article 14.26 (commencing with Section 1063.70).
(3) If bonds issued pursuant to either article are outstanding, the premium charged to a member insurer for the category for which the bond proceeds are being used to pay claims and expenses shall not be more than 1 percent of the net direct written premium for that category.
(e) (1) The association may exempt or defer, in whole or in part, the premium charge of any member insurer, if the premium charge would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. However, during the period of deferment, no dividends shall be paid to shareholders or policyholders by the company whose premium charge was deferred.
(2) Deferred premium charges shall be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums.
(f) After all covered claims of the insolvent insurer and expenses of administration have been paid, any unused premiums and any reimbursements or claims dividends from the liquidator remaining in any category shall be retained by the association and applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(g) The commissioner may suspend or revoke the certificate of authority to transact business in this state of a member insurer that fails to pay a premium when due and after demand has been made.
(h) Interest at a rate equal to the current federal reserve discount rate plus 2
1/2
percent per annum shall be added to the premium of any member insurer that fails to submit the premium requested by the association within 30 days after the mailing request. However, in no event shall the interest rate exceed the legal maximum.
(i) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017.
(j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2020, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2020, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 3.
Section 1063.5 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.5.
(a) (1) To the extent necessary to secure funds for the association for payment of the administrative expenses of the association, covered claims of insolvent insurers, and for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting the claims, the association shall collect premium payments from its member insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations.
(2) The association shall allocate its claim payments and costs, incurred or estimated to be incurred, to one or more of the following categories:
(A) Workers’ compensation claims.
(B) Homeowners’ claims and automobile claims, including all of the following:
(i) Automobile material damage.
(ii) Automobile liability (both personal injury and death and property damage).
(iii) Medical payments.
(iv) Uninsured motorist claims.
(C) Claims other than workers’ compensation, homeowners’, and automobile, as defined above.
(3) Separate premium payments shall be required for each category.
(4) The premium payments for each category shall be used to pay the claims and costs allocated to that category.
(b) (1) The rate of premium charged shall be a uniform percentage of net direct written premium in the preceding calendar year applicable to that category.
(2) The rate of premium charges to each member insurer in the appropriate categories shall be based on the net direct written premium of each member insurer as shown in the latest year’s annual financial statement on file with the commissioner.
(c) (1) For purposes of this section, “net direct written premiums” means the amount of gross premiums, less return premiums, received in that calendar year upon business done in this state, other than premiums received for reinsurance.
(2) In cases of a dispute as to the amount of the net direct written premium between the association and one of its member insurers, the written decision of the commissioner shall be final.
(d) In charging premiums to member insurers, the association shall adjust, if necessary, the net direct written premiums shown on a member insurer’s annual statement by excluding any premiums written for any lines of insurance or types of coverage not covered by this article under paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 1063.1.
(e) (1) The premium charged to any member insurer for any of the three categories or a category established by the association shall not be more than 2 percent of the net direct written premium unless there are bonds outstanding that were issued pursuant to Article 14.25 (commencing with Section 1063.50) or Article 14.26 (commencing with Section 1063.70).
(2) If bonds issued pursuant to either article are outstanding, the premium charged to a member insurer for the category for which the bond proceeds are being used to pay claims and expenses shall not be more than 1 percent of the net direct written premium for that category.
(f) (1) The association may exempt or defer, in whole or in part, the premium charge of any member insurer, if the premium charge would cause the member insurer’s financial statement to reflect an amount of capital or surplus less than the minimum amounts required for a certificate of authority by any jurisdiction in which the member insurer is authorized to transact insurance. However, during the period of deferment, no dividends shall be paid to shareholders or policyholders by the company whose premium charge was deferred.
(2) Deferred premium charges shall be paid when the payment will not reduce capital or surplus below required minimums.
(g) After all covered claims of insolvent insurers and expenses of administration have been paid, any unused premiums and any reimbursements or claims dividends from liquidators remaining in any category shall be retained by the association and applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(h) The commissioner may suspend or revoke the certificate of authority to transact business in this state of a member insurer that fails to pay a premium when due and after demand has been made.
(i) Interest at a rate equal to the current federal reserve discount rate plus 2
1/2
percent per annum shall be added to the premium of any member insurer that fails to submit the premium requested by the association within 30 days after the mailing request. However, in no event shall the interest rate exceed the legal maximum.
(j) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017.
SEC. 4.
Section 1063.14 of the Insurance Code is amended and renumbered, to immediately precede Section 1063.14 of the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.135.
(a) The plan of operation adopted pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1063 shall contain provisions whereby each member insurer is required to recoup in the year following the premium charge a sum reasonably calculated to recoup the premium charge paid by the member insurer under this article by way of a surcharge on premiums charged for insurance policies to which this article applies. Amounts recouped shall not be considered premiums for any other purpose, including the computation of gross premium tax or agents’ commission.
(b) The amount of any surcharge shall be separately stated on either a billing or policy declaration sent to an insured. The association shall determine the rate of the surcharge and the collection period for each category and these shall be mandatory for all member insurers of the association who write business in those categories. Member insurers who collect surcharges in excess of premiums paid pursuant to Section 1063.45 for an insolvent insurer shall remit the excess to the association as an additional premium within 30 days after the association has determined the amount of the excess recoupment and given notice to the member insurer of that amount. The excess shall be applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(c) The plan of operation may permit a member insurer to omit collection of the surcharge from its insureds when the expense of collecting the surcharge would exceed the amount of the surcharge. However, nothing in this section shall relieve the member insurer of its obligation to recoup the amount of surcharge otherwise collectible.
(d) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid prior to January 1, 2017.
(e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2020, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2020, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 5.
Section 1063.14 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
1063.14.
(a) (1) The plan of operation adopted pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1063 shall contain provisions whereby each member insurer is required to recoup in the year following the premium charge a sum calculated to recoup the premium charge paid by the member insurer under this article by way of a surcharge on premiums charged for insurance policies to which this article applies.
(2) Amounts recouped shall not be considered premiums for any other purpose, including the computation of gross premium tax or agents’ commission.
(b) (1) The amount of any surcharge shall be separately stated on either a billing or policy declaration sent to an insured. The association shall determine the rate of the surcharge and the collection period for each category, and these shall be mandatory for all member insurers of the association who write business in those categories.
(2) Each member insurer shall file a report in accordance with the provisions of the plan of operation indicating the amount of surcharges it has collected.
(A) Member insurers who collect surcharges in excess of premium charges paid in the preceding year pursuant to Section 1063.5 shall remit the excess to the association as an additional premium within 30 days after the association has determined the amount of the excess recoupment and given notice to the member insurer of that amount. The excess shall be applied to reduce future premium charges in the appropriate category.
(B) Member insurers who report surcharge collections that are less than what they paid in the preceding year’s premium charge shall receive reimbursement from the association for the shortfall in surcharge collection.
(c) (1) The plan of operation may permit a member insurer to omit collection of the surcharge from its insureds when the expense of collecting the surcharge would exceed the amount of the surcharge.
(2) A member insurer electing to omit collecting surcharges from any of its insureds shall not be entitled to any reimbursement from the association pursuant to subdivision (b).
(3) However, nothing in this section shall relieve the member insurer of its obligation to recoup the amount of surcharge otherwise collectible.
(d) This section shall apply only to premium charges paid on or after January 1, 2017.
r1 score is: 
0.0800942285041224
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law provides generally for procedures governing civil actions. Existing law imposes additional procedures that apply with respect to limited types of civil actions.
This bill would enact the Asbestos Tort Claim Trust Transparency Act, which would establish additional procedures with respect to civil actions pertaining to asbestos tort claims, as defined. The bill would, among other things, require, that a plaintiff disclose specified information with respect to any asbestos trusts, as defined, against which the plaintiff has or could pursue a claim, and would entitle a defendant to discover relevant information pertaining to the plaintiff held by other asbestos trusts and to pursue various motions.
This bill would require a plaintiff to serve certain statements made under penalty of perjury. By expanding the scope of an existing crime, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to the Code of Civil Procedure.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 36 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
36.
(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.
(b) A civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject to this subdivision.
(c) Unless the court otherwise orders:
(1) A party may file and serve a motion for preference supported by a declaration of the moving party that all essential parties have been served with process or have appeared.
(2) At any time during the pendency of the action, a party who reaches 70 years of age may file and serve a motion for preference.
(d) In its discretion, the court may also grant a motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.
(e) Notwithstanding any other
provision of
law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.
(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.
(g) Upon the granting of a motion for preference pursuant to subdivision (b), a party in an action based upon a health provider’s alleged professional negligence, as defined in Section 364, shall receive a trial date not sooner than six months and not later than nine months from the date that the motion is granted.
(h) In an asbestos tort action, as defined in Section 821, a plaintiff bringing a motion for preference shall submit a sworn affidavit in support stating each of the following:
(1) That he or she has complied with the disclosure requirements of subdivision (a) of Section 822.
(2) That he or she has made a good faith effort to determine if there are any asbestos trusts against which he or she has a basis to make a claim and, if there are, that he or she has made claims with all of those asbestos trusts.
(i) A plaintiff in an asbestos tort action, as defined in Section 821, shall not be entitled to a trial preference pursuant to this section if the plaintiff is subject to an order issued pursuant to Section 825.
SEC. 2.
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 820) is added to Title 10 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to read:
CHAPTER  6. Actions Relating to Asbestos Tort Claims
820.
This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the Asbestos Tort Claim Trust Transparency Act.
821.
The following terms are defined as follows:
(a) “Asbestos tort action” means any action involving an asbestos tort claim.
(b) “Asbestos tort claim” means a claim for damages, loss, indemnification, contribution, restitution, or other relief, including punitive damages, related to personal injury or death of a person for whom an asbestos trust may be responsible, including, without limitation, lost earnings or earning capacity, medical expenses, medical monitoring, loss of consortium, loss of the ability to provide household services, loss of love, companionship, comfort, care, assistance, protection, affection, society, moral support, training and guidance, mental or emotional distress, or any other harm for which an asbestos trust claim may be asserted under law.
(c) “Asbestos trust” means a trust entity, qualified settlement fund, or claims processing facility established or in the process of being established pursuant to an administrative or legal action or a United States Bankruptcy court pursuant to Section 524(g) of Title 11, or Section 40101 of Title 49, of the United States Code, or other law formed for the purpose of compensating claimants asserting eligible asbestos tort claims.
(d) “Asbestos trust claim” means any asbestos tort claim filed or that could be filed with an asbestos trust.
(e) “Asbestos trust claim documents” means all writings, as defined by Section 250 of the Evidence Code, and information relevant to a pending or potential claim against an asbestos trust, including all proof of claim forms and all supplementary or supporting materials submitted to, or required by, an asbestos trust for an asbestos trust claim to be evaluated for compensation, including, without limitation, affidavits, declarations, interrogatory responses, deposition and trial testimony, economic loss documentation, medical records, death certificate and certificate of official capacity, claims payment matrices, trust distribution procedures, or asbestos trust plans for reorganization.
822.
(a) (1) The plaintiff in an asbestos tort claim shall serve on all parties each of the following:
(A) A sworn statement, under penalty of perjury, identifying each asbestos trust claim that the plaintiff has filed or has basis to file against an asbestos trust and, for each such asbestos trust claim, whether there has been a request to defer, delay, suspend, or toll the claim.
(B) All asbestos trust claim documents that the plaintiff has submitted to an asbestos trust.
(C) All documents relating to communications between, or on behalf of, the plaintiff and an asbestos trust.
(2) The documents described in paragraph (1) shall be served not later than 90 days after the filing of the complaint in an asbestos tort action, except under the following circumstances in which case the documents shall be served in the lesser time:
(A) Within 30 days, in an asbestos tort action in which the plaintiff is awarded a preferential trial date pursuant to Section 36.
(B) On or before March 1, 2017, with respect to an asbestos tort action that is currently pending on or before January 1, 2017.
(b) The plaintiff shall supplement the information and materials served pursuant to subdivision (a) within 30 days of filing any additional asbestos trust claims, supplementing an existing asbestos trust claim, or receiving additional information or materials related to any asbestos trust claim and, to the extent not earlier supplemented, within seven days of trial.
(c) This section shall not prevent the court from requiring disclosures for an asbestos trust claim that are in addition to those required by this section.
823.
(a) A defendant in an asbestos tort action may seek discovery of relevant materials from an asbestos trust identified by the plaintiff pursuant to Section 822 that concern the plaintiff. The plaintiff may not claim privilege or confidentiality to bar discovery under this section and shall provide consent or other authorization as may be required by an asbestos trust to facilitate the release of relevant asbestos trust claim documents sought by the defendant.
(b) Asbestos trust claim documents shall be admissible as evidence in an asbestos tort action, including, without limitation, to prove alternative causation for a plaintiff’s injury or to prove that responsibility for a plaintiff’s injury should be apportioned. Claims of privilege do not apply to asbestos trust claim documents.
824.
If a defendant identifies an asbestos trust that plaintiff failed to disclose as required by Section 822 as to which the defendant believes a plaintiff has a viable claim, the defendant may file a motion for an order for any of the following:
(a) To require the plaintiff to file a claim against the improperly withheld asbestos trust.
(b) To stay the action or vacate the trial date until the plaintiff files a claim against the improperly withheld asbestos trust.
(c) Any other relief that the court deems appropriate in its discretion for good cause shown.
825.
The court may stay an asbestos tort action, decline to assign an initial trial date, deny a motion for preference under Section 36, vacate or continue the trial date in asbestos tort action, or impose any other remedies in its discretion in any of the following circumstances:
(a) Identification by a plaintiff of an asbestos trust pursuant to Section 822 for which the plaintiff has a basis to file but has not yet filed an asbestos trust claim.
(b) Failure of a plaintiff to serve the disclosures required pursuant to Section 822.
(c) Upon the granting of a defendant’s motion pursuant to Section 824.
826.
In an asbestos tort action in which damages are awarded, the claims against the other defendants shall be reduced, pursuant to Section 877, by the amount paid to a plaintiff by any other asbestos trust or, if not yet paid as of the date of entry of judgment, by the valuation amount of such asbestos trust claim as specified in the asbestos trust claim documents, whichever is greater.
827.
In an asbestos tort action, a court may retain jurisdiction over the action even after the action is resolved for purposes of hearing motions or enforcing appropriate remedies relating to any issues raised under this chapter, including, without limitation, willful concealment or intentional delay in the filing of an asbestos trust claim.
SEC. 3.
Section 877 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
877.
Where a release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant not to sue or not to enforce judgment is given in good faith before verdict or judgment to one or more of a number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the same tort, or to one or more other co-obligors mutually subject to contribution rights, it shall have the following effect:
(a)
(1)
It shall not discharge any other such party from liability unless its terms so provide, but it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated by the release, the
dismissal
dismissal,
or the covenant, or in the amount of the consideration paid for it, whichever is the greater.
(2) This subdivision shall also apply to moneys received by or on behalf of a claimant from an asbestos trust, as defined by Section 821, whether the moneys are received before or after a verdict or judgment.
(b) It shall discharge the party to whom it is given from all liability for any contribution to any other parties.
(c) This section shall not apply to co-obligors who have expressly agreed in writing to an apportionment of liability for losses or claims among themselves.
(d) This section shall not apply to a release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant not to sue or not to enforce judgment given to a co-obligor on an alleged contract debt
where
if
the contract was made
prior to
before
January 1, 1988.
SEC. 4.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.0923076923076923
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the Department of Parks and Recreation and vests the department with the control of the state park system. Existing law authorizes the Director of Parks and Recreation to negotiate or renegotiate a concession contract within state parks if specified conditions exist and generally requires that a concession contract within state parks for a period of more than 2 years be awarded to the best responsible bidder.
This bill would enact the California Heritage Protection Act, which would make various changes to the process for negotiating or renegotiating state parks concession contracts. The bill would modify the definition of a best responsible bidder to include that the bidder, among other things, will operate the concession in a manner that protects the state’s trademark and service mark interest in the names associated with a state park venue and its historical, cultural, and recreational resources.
This bill would prohibit a concession contract from providing a contracting party with a trademark or service mark interest in the name or names associated with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, and would prohibit a concession contract from serving as the basis for any legal claim that the contracting party has that interest. The bill would declare that these provisions do not constitute a change in, but are declaratory of, existing law. The bill would prohibit a bidder who makes that legal claim or assertion, and a bidder who a court has determined has made that legal claim or assertion with respect to a state or federal park venue without reasonable cause and in bad faith, from being awarded a concession contract within state parks. The bill would require the department to adopt regulations to provide a bidder who is denied a contract award based on these reasons with written notice and an opportunity to rebut the basis of the contract denial at a formal hearing. The bill would render a provision of a concession contract that, on and after January 1, 2017, provides a contracting party with a trademark or service mark interest in the name or names associated with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, void and unenforceable.
This bill would require a concession contract to contain provisions requiring the concessionaire to forfeit the right to bid on future state park concession contracts if the concessionaire makes the above-described legal claim or assertion and requiring a concessionaire to be responsible for the state’s attorney fees, costs, and expenses if the concessionaire in bad faith files a federal or state trademark or service mark application for a trademark or service mark that incorporates or implies association with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, and the state files a successful opposition or cancellation of the trademark or service mark application.
This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 5080.18 of the Public Resources Code proposed by SB 1473 to be operative only if SB 1473 and this bill are chaptered and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, and this bill is chaptered last.
produced summary is: 
Existing law, the California Heritage Protection Act, makes technical, nonsubstantive changes to the state parks and their facilities. This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to these provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
This act shall be known, and may be cited, as the California Heritage Protection Act.
SEC. 2.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) National, state, and regional parks serve the public interest, benefit California, and very often reflect historic significance that earlier generations of Californians have attached to these sites.
(b) Yosemite National Park, located in California, is one of the most important and majestic parks in the United States and is filled with historic landmarks built several decades ago. The historic nature of these landmarks as California heirloom destinations is demonstrated by topographic maps of the Yosemite Valley, dating back to the 1950s, which include these venues.
(c) The Ahwahnee Hotel was built in the 1920s with a backdrop of Half Dome. It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1977.
(d) Curry Village, in the Yosemite Valley, is named after a San Francisco Bay area couple who established a summer camp there in 1899. It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.
(e) The Wawona Hotel is a complex of seven buildings in the southwest corner of Yosemite National Park. The first building, then named “Long White,” was originally constructed in 1876. The main hotel building originally opened in 1879. It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.
(f) California state park venues are held in public trust for the people of California. A legal claim by an individual to have a trademark right to a name or names associated with a venue within a state park derogates the interests of California and the shared history of Californians, and it is indicative of a lack of the individual’s fitness to serve as a steward of the state’s cherished cultural heritage and places.
(g) An agreement entered into by any California state agency that compromises the interests of Californians is “ultra vires” and therefore beyond that agency’s legal authority to enter.
(h) It is important that the Legislature clarify that an awarded concession contract within California’s state parks does not give the concessionaire a trademark right to the name or names associated with a state park venue or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources. Furthermore, a concessionaire who makes a legal claim to have that trademark right should be disqualified from further consideration as a bidder.
SEC. 3.
Section 5080.05 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
5080.05.
(a) Except as provided in Section 5080.16, all contracts authorizing occupancy of any portion of the state park system for a period of more than two years shall be awarded to the best responsible bidder.
(b) “Best responsible bidder” means the bidder, as determined by specific standards established by the department, that, as determined by the department, will operate the concession (1) consistent with the contract, (2) in a manner fully compatible with, and complementary to, the characteristics, features, and theme of the unit in which the concession will be operated, (3) in the best interests of the state and public, and (4) in a manner that protects the state’s trademark and service mark rights in the names associated with a state park venue and its historical, cultural, and recreational resources. For purposes of this section, a bidder who would be subject to subdivision (b) of Section 5080.22 is not a best responsible bidder.
SEC. 4.
Section 5080.18 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
5080.18.
A concession contract entered into pursuant to this article shall contain, but is not limited to, all of the following provisions:
(a) (1) The maximum term shall be 10 years, except that a term of more than 10 years may be provided if the director determines that the longer term is necessary to allow the concessionaire to amortize improvements made by the concessionaire, to facilitate the full utilization of a structure that is scheduled by the department for replacement or redevelopment, or to serve the best interests of the state. The term shall not exceed 20 years without specific authorization by statute. Except as provided in Section 5080.16, all renewals of concession contracts pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to competitive bidding requirements.
(2) The maximum term shall be 50 years if the concession contract is for the construction, development, and operation of multiple-unit lodging facilities equipped with full amenities, including plumbing and electrical, that is anticipated to exceed an initial cost of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) in capital improvements in order to begin operation. The term for a concession contract described in this paragraph shall not exceed 50 years without specific authorization by statute. Except as provided in Section 5080.16, all renewals of concession contracts pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to competitive bidding requirements.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a concession agreement at Will Rogers State Beach executed prior to December 31, 1997, including, but not limited to, an agreement signed pursuant to Section 25907 of the Government Code, may be extended to exceed 20 years in total length without specific authorization by statute, upon approval by the director and pursuant to a determination by the director that the longer term is necessary to allow the concessionaire to amortize improvements made by the concessionaire that are anticipated to exceed one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) in capital improvements. Any extensions granted pursuant to this paragraph shall not be for more than 15 years.
(b) Every concessionaire shall submit to the department all sales and use tax returns and, at the request of the department, provide an annual financial statement prepared or audited by a certified public accountant.
(c) Every concession shall be subject to audit by the department.
(d) A performance bond shall be obtained and maintained by the concessionaire. In lieu of a bond, the concessionaire may substitute a deposit of funds acceptable to the department. Interest on the deposit shall accrue to the concessionaire.
(e) The concessionaire shall obtain and maintain in force at all times a policy of liability insurance in an amount adequate for the nature and extent of public usage of the concession and naming the state as an additional insured.
(f) Any discrimination by the concessionaire or his or her agents or employees against any person because of the marital status or ancestry of that person or any characteristic listed or defined in Section 11135 of the Government Code is prohibited.
(g) To be effective, any modification of the concession contract shall be evidenced in writing.
(h) Whenever a concession contract is terminated for substantial breach, there shall be no obligation on the part of the state to purchase any improvements made by the concessionaire.
(i) If a concessionaire makes a legal claim or assertion to have a trademark or service mark interest in violation of subdivision (a) of Section 5080.22, the concessionaire shall forfeit the right to bid on future state park concession contracts to the extent authorized by federal law.
(j) If a current or former concessionaire in bad faith files a federal or state trademark or service mark application for a trademark or service mark that incorporates or implies an association with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, and the state files a successful opposition or cancellation with respect to that trademark or service mark application, the concessionaire shall be responsible for the state’s attorney fees, costs, and expenses associated with that opposition or cancellation.
SEC. 4.5.
Section 5080.18 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
5080.18.
A concession contract entered into pursuant to this article shall contain, but is not limited to, all of the following provisions:
(a) (1) The maximum term shall be 10 years, except that a term of more than 10 years may be provided if the director determines that the longer term is necessary to allow the concessionaire to amortize improvements made by the concessionaire, to facilitate the full utilization of a structure that is scheduled by the department for replacement or redevelopment, or to serve the best interests of the state. The term shall not exceed 20 years without specific authorization by statute. Except as provided in Section 5080.16, all renewals of concession contracts pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to competitive bidding requirements.
(2) The maximum term shall be 50 years if the concession contract is for the construction, development, and operation of multiple-unit lodging facilities equipped with full amenities, including plumbing and electrical, that is anticipated to exceed an initial cost of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) in capital improvements in order to begin operation. The term for a concession contract described in this paragraph shall not exceed 50 years without specific authorization by statute. Except as provided in Section 5080.16, all renewals of concession contracts pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to competitive bidding requirements.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a concession agreement at Will Rogers State Beach may be may be awarded for up to 50 years in length without specific authorization by statute, upon approval by the director and pursuant to a determination by the director that the longer term is necessary to allow the concessionaire to amortize improvements made by the concessionaire that are anticipated to exceed one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) in capital improvements.
(b) Every concessionaire shall submit to the department all sales and use tax returns and, at the request of the department, provide an annual financial statement prepared or audited by a certified public accountant.
(c) Every concession shall be subject to audit by the department.
(d) A performance bond shall be obtained and maintained by the concessionaire. In lieu of a bond, the concessionaire may substitute a deposit of funds acceptable to the department. Interest on the deposit shall accrue to the concessionaire.
(e) The concessionaire shall obtain and maintain in force at all times a policy of liability insurance in an amount adequate for the nature and extent of public usage of the concession and naming the state as an additional insured.
(f) Any discrimination by the concessionaire or his or her agents or employees against any person because of the marital status or ancestry of that person or any characteristic listed or defined in Section 11135 of the Government Code is prohibited.
(g) To be effective, any modification of the concession contract shall be evidenced in writing.
(h) Whenever a concession contract is terminated for substantial breach, there shall be no obligation on the part of the state to purchase any improvements made by the concessionaire.
(i) If a concessionaire makes a legal claim or assertion to have a trademark or service mark interest in violation of subdivision (a) of Section 5080.22, the concessionaire shall forfeit the right to bid on future state park concession contracts to the extent authorized by federal law.
(j) If a current or former concessionaire in bad faith files a federal or state trademark or service mark application for a trademark or service mark that incorporates or implies an association with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, and the state files a successful opposition or cancellation with respect to that trademark or service mark application, the concessionaire shall be responsible for the state’s attorney fees, costs, and expenses associated with that opposition or cancellation.
SEC. 5.
Section 5080.22 is added to the Public Resources Code, to read:
5080.22.
(a) (1) A concession contract awarded pursuant to Section 5080.05, 5080.16, or 5080.23 shall not provide the contracting party with a trademark or service mark interest in the name or names associated with a state park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, and shall not serve as the basis for any legal claim that the contracting party has that interest.
(2) This subdivision does not constitute a change in, but is declaratory of, existing law.
(b) To the extent consistent with federal law, a bidder shall not be awarded a contract pursuant to Section 5080.05, 5080.16, or 5080.23 if either of the following applies:
(1) The bidder has made a legal claim or assertion to have a trademark or service mark interest in violation of subdivision (a).
(2) A court has determined that the bidder has made a legal claim or assertion to have a trademark or service mark interest in the name or names associated with a state or federal park venue, or its historical, cultural, or recreational resources, without reasonable cause and in bad faith.
(c) The department shall adopt regulations to provide a bidder who is denied a contract award based on subdivision (b) with written notice of that denial and an opportunity to rebut the basis for the contract denial at a formal hearing.
(d) Commencing January 1, 2017, a provision of a contract or other agreement entered into pursuant to Section 5080.05, 5080.16, or 5080.23 that violates subdivision (a) shall be void and unenforceable.
(e) This section shall not be construed to impact a contracting party’s valid trademark or service mark rights that were held before the concession contract was awarded.
SEC. 6.
Section 4.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 5080.18 of the Public Resources Code proposed by both this bill and Senate Bill 1473. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, (2) each bill amends Section 5080.18 of the Public Resources Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Senate Bill 1473, in which case Section 4 of this bill shall not become operative.
r1 score is: 
0.0802919708029197
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law permits a judgment against a criminal defendant that orders the defendant to pay a fine, other than a restitution fine or order, to also direct that he or she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied. Existing law requires the judgment to specify the term of imprisonment for nonpayment of the fine, and prohibits that term from exceeding one day for each $125 of the fine, or exceeding the term for which the defendant may be sentenced for the offense of which he or she has been convicted.
This bill would prohibit the term of imprisonment for nonpayment of a fine from exceeding one day for each $125 of the base fine or the term for which the defendant may be sentenced. The bill would require the penalties and assessments imposed on the base fine, if an amount of the base fine is not satisfied by jail credits or community service, to be reduced by the percentage of the base fine that was satisfied.
Existing law also requires that in all felony and misdemeanor convictions, when the defendant has been in custody, that all days of custody of the defendant, as specified, are to be credited upon his or her term of imprisonment, or credited to any fine, on a proportional basis, that may be imposed, at the rate of not less than $125 per day, in the discretion of the court imposing the sentence.
This bill would specify that the rate of credit under those provisions be credited to the term of imprisonment of the defendant or credited to the base fine that may be imposed. The bill would require the penalties and assessments imposed on the base fine, if an amount of the base fine is not satisfied by jail credits or community service, to be reduced by the percentage of the base fine that was satisfied.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1205 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
1205.
(a) A judgment that the defendant pay a fine, with or without other punishment, may also direct that he or she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied and may further direct that the imprisonment begin at and continue after the expiration of any imprisonment imposed as a part of the punishment or of any other imprisonment to which the defendant may have been sentenced. The judgment shall specify the term of imprisonment for nonpayment of the fine, which shall not be more than one day for each one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) of the base fine, nor exceed the term for which the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment for the offense of which he or she has been convicted. A defendant held in custody for nonpayment of a fine shall be entitled to credit on the fine for each day he or she is held in custody, at the rate specified in the judgment. When the defendant has been convicted of a misdemeanor, a judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or she pay the fine within a limited time or in installments on specified dates, and that in default of payment as stipulated he or she be imprisoned in the discretion of the court either until the defaulted installment is satisfied or until the fine is satisfied in full; but unless the direction is given in the judgment, the fine shall be payable. If an amount of the base fine is not satisfied by jail credits, or by community service, the penalties and assessments imposed on the base fine shall be reduced by the percentage of the base fine that was satisfied.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in case of fines imposed, as a condition of probation, the defendant shall pay the fine to the clerk of the court, or to the judge if there is no clerk, unless the defendant is taken into custody for nonpayment of the fine, in which event payments made while he or she is in custody shall be made to the officer who holds the defendant in custody, and all amounts paid shall be paid over by the officer to the court that rendered the judgment. The clerk shall report to the court every default in payment of a fine or any part of that fine, or if there is no clerk, the court shall take notice of the default. If time has been given for payment of a fine or it has been made payable in installments, the court shall, upon any default in payment, immediately order the arrest of the defendant and order him or her to show cause why he or she should not be imprisoned until the fine or installment is satisfied in full. If the fine or installment is payable forthwith and it is not paid, the court shall, without further proceedings, immediately commit the defendant to the custody of the proper officer to be held in custody until the fine or installment is satisfied in full.
(c) This section applies to any violation of any of the codes or statutes of this state punishable by a fine or by a fine and imprisonment.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the clerk of the court, or the judge if there is no clerk, from turning these accounts over to another county department or a collecting agency for processing and collection.
(e) The defendant shall pay to the clerk of the court or the collecting agency a fee for the processing of installment accounts. This fee shall equal the administrative and clerical costs, as determined by the board of supervisors, or by the court, depending on which entity administers the account. The defendant shall pay to the clerk of the court or the collecting agency the fee established for the processing of the accounts receivable that are not to be paid in installments. The fee shall equal the administrative and clerical costs, as determined by the board of supervisors, or by the court, depending on which entity administers the account, except that the fee shall not exceed thirty dollars ($30).
(f) This section shall not apply to restitution fines and restitution orders.
SEC. 2.
Section 2900.5 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
2900.5.
(a) In all felony and misdemeanor convictions, either by plea or by verdict, when the defendant has been in custody, including, but not limited to, any time spent in a jail, camp, work furlough facility, halfway house, rehabilitation facility, hospital, prison, juvenile detention facility, or similar residential institution, all days of custody of the defendant, including days served as a condition of probation in compliance with a court order, credited to the period of confinement pursuant to Section 4019, and days served in home detention pursuant to Section 1203.016 or 1203.018, shall be credited upon his or her term of imprisonment, or credited to any base fine that may be imposed, at the rate of not less than one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) per day, or more, in the discretion of the court imposing the sentence. If the total number of days in custody exceeds the number of days of the term of imprisonment to be imposed, the entire term of imprisonment shall be deemed to have been served. In any case where the court has imposed both a prison or jail term of imprisonment and a fine, any days to be credited to the defendant shall first be applied to the term of imprisonment imposed, and thereafter the remaining days, if any, shall be applied to the base fine. If an amount of the base fine is not satisfied by jail credits, or by community service, the penalties and assessments imposed on the base fine shall be reduced by the percentage of the base fine that was satisfied.
(b) For the purposes of this section, credit shall be given only where the custody to be credited is attributable to proceedings related to the same conduct for which the defendant has been convicted. Credit shall be given only once for a single period of custody attributable to multiple offenses for which a consecutive sentence is imposed.
(c) For the purposes of this section, “term of imprisonment” includes any period of imprisonment imposed as a condition of probation or otherwise ordered by a court in imposing or suspending the imposition of any sentence, and also includes any term of imprisonment, including any period of imprisonment prior to release on parole and any period of imprisonment and parole, prior to discharge, whether established or fixed by statute, by any court, or by any duly authorized administrative agency.
(d) It is the duty of the court imposing the sentence to determine the date or dates of any admission to, and release from, custody prior to sentencing and the total number of days to be credited pursuant to this section. The total number of days to be credited shall be contained in the abstract of judgment provided for in Section 1213.
(e) It is the duty of any agency to which a person is committed to apply the credit provided for in this section for the period between the date of sentencing and the date the person is delivered to the agency.
(f) If a defendant serves time in a camp, work furlough facility, halfway house, rehabilitation facility, hospital, juvenile detention facility, similar residential facility, or home detention program pursuant to Section 1203.016, 1203.017, or 1203.018, in lieu of imprisonment in a county jail, the time spent in these facilities or programs shall qualify as mandatory time in jail.
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this code as it pertains to the sentencing of convicted offenders, this section does not authorize the sentencing of convicted offenders to any of the facilities or programs mentioned herein.
r1 score is: 
0.123943661971831
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the system of public elementary and secondary schools in this state, and provides for the establishment of local educational agencies to operate these schools and provide instruction to pupils. Existing law states the policy of the State of California to afford all persons in public schools, regardless of their disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any other specified characteristic, equal rights and opportunities in the educational institutions of the state. Existing law, the Safe Place to Learn Act, requires the State Department of Education, as part of its regular monitoring and review of a local educational agency, to assess whether the local educational agency has, among other things, adopted a policy that prohibits discrimination, harassment, intimidation, and bullying, as specified, and has publicized that policy to pupils, parents, employees, agents of the governing board, and the general public.
Existing law also requires the department to assess whether the local educational agency has provided to certificated schoolsite employees who serve pupils in any of grades 7 to 12, inclusive, information on existing schoolsite and community resources related to the support of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning pupils, as specified.
This bill would express legislative findings and declarations relating to pupils who are subject to verbal, physical, and online harassment. The bill would add the support of pupils who face bias or bullying on the basis of religious affiliation, or perceived religious affiliation.
Existing law requires the Superintendent of Public Instruction to post, and annually update, on the department’s Internet Web site and provide to each school district a list of statewide resources, including community-based organizations, that provide support to youth who have been subjected to school-based discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying, and their families.
This bill would instead provide that that list include statewide resources, including community-based organizations, that provide support to youth, and their families, who have been subjected to school-based discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying on the basis of religious affiliation, nationality, race, or ethnicity, or perceived religious affiliation, nationality, race, or ethnicity.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(1) All pupils deserve and need safe and supportive school environments in which to learn.
(2) Pupils who are Muslim, Sikh, or of South Asian descent often face verbal, physical, or online harassment, all of which have significant effects on their academic achievement and mental health.
(3) Recent reports indicate that more than half of Muslim and Sikh pupils in California report that they have faced verbal threats or insults, cyberbullying, or physical assaults.
(4) The federal government has recognized the harm that is caused by such bullying, and has called upon Muslim parents to contact the United States Department of Justice or the United States Department of Education if their children are bullied at school. The White House has initiated the Asian American and Pacific Islander Bullying Prevention Task Force in response to concerns about the bullying of Muslim, Sikh, and Asian American pupils.
(5) Multiple studies demonstrate that pupils who face bullying suffer academically. Bullying is also linked to negative outcomes, including impacts on mental health, substance use, and suicide.
(6) Research demonstrates that Muslim, Sikh, and other pupils who face hate-based bias and bullying in school do not report these incidents to school staff, primarily because they believe that school staff are not trained to address these issues.
(7) Creating supportive learning environments improves pupil performance.
(8) The United States Department of Education provides numerous resources for schools to support pupils who are facing bullying due to their religion, race, or national origin. These resources were highlighted in an open letter dated December 31, 2015, and sent by the United States Secretary of Education to education administrators throughout the nation.
(b) The Legislature therefore encourages school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools to provide information on existing schoolsite and community resources to educate teachers, administrators, and other school staff on the support of Muslim, Sikh, and other pupils who may face anti-Muslim bias and bullying, as required by subdivision (d) of Section 234.1 of the Education Code.
SEC. 2.
Section 234.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
234.1.
The department, pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 64001, shall monitor adherence to the requirements of Chapter 5.3 (commencing with Section 4900) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and this chapter as part of its regular monitoring and review of local educational agencies, commonly known as the Categorical Program Monitoring process. The department shall assess whether local educational agencies have done all of the following:
(a) Adopted a policy that prohibits discrimination, harassment, intimidation, and bullying based on the actual or perceived characteristics set forth in Section 422.55 of the Penal Code and Section 220 of this code, and disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or association with a person or group with one or more of these actual or perceived characteristics. The policy shall include a statement that the policy applies to all acts related to school activity or school attendance occurring within a school under the jurisdiction of the superintendent of the school district.
(b) Adopted a process for receiving and investigating complaints of discrimination, harassment, intimidation, and bullying based on any of the actual or perceived characteristics set forth in Section 422.55 of the Penal Code and Section 220 of this code, and disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or association with a person or group with one or more of these actual or perceived characteristics. The complaint process shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
(1) A requirement that, if school personnel witness an act of discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying, they shall take immediate steps to intervene when safe to do so.
(2) A timeline to investigate and resolve complaints of discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying that shall be followed by all schools under the jurisdiction of the school district.
(3) An appeal process afforded to the complainant should he or she disagree with the resolution of a complaint filed pursuant to this section.
(4) All forms developed pursuant to this process shall be translated pursuant to Section 48985.
(c) Publicized antidiscrimination, anti-harassment, anti-intimidation, and antibullying policies adopted pursuant to subdivision (a), including information about the manner in which to file a complaint, to pupils, parents, employees, agents of the governing board, and the general public. The information shall be translated pursuant to Section 48985.
(d) (1) Provided, incident to the publicizing described in subdivision (c), to certificated schoolsite employees who serve pupils in any of grades 7 to 12, inclusive, who are employed by the local educational agency, information on existing schoolsite and community resources related to the support of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) pupils, or related to the support of pupils who may face bias or bullying on the basis of religious affiliation, or perceived religious affiliation.
(2) As used in this subdivision, both of the following apply:
(A) Schoolsite resources may include, but are not limited to, peer support or affinity clubs and organizations, safe spaces for LGBTQ or other at-risk pupils, counseling services, staff who have received antibias or other training aimed at supporting these pupils or who serve as designated support to these pupils, health and other curriculum materials that are inclusive of, and relevant to, these pupils, online training developed pursuant to Section 32283.5, and other policies adopted pursuant to this article, including related complaint procedures.
(B) Community resources may include, but are not limited to, community-based organizations that provide support to LGBTQ or other at-risk pupils and their families, and physical and mental health providers with experience or training in treating or supporting these pupils.
(e) Posted the policy established pursuant to subdivision (a) in all schools and offices, including staff lounges and pupil government meeting rooms.
(f) Maintained documentation of complaints and their resolution for a minimum of one review cycle.
(g) Ensured that complainants are protected from retaliation and that the identity of a complainant alleging discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying remains confidential, as appropriate.
(h) Identified a responsible local educational agency officer for ensuring school district or county office of education compliance with the requirements of Chapter 5.3 (commencing with Section 4900) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and this chapter.
(i) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require school employees to engage with religious institutions in the course of identifying community support resources pursuant to this section.
SEC. 3.
Section 234.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
234.5.
(a) The Superintendent shall post, and annually update, on the department’s Internet Web site and provide to each school district a list of statewide resources, including community-based organizations, that provide support to youth, and their families, who have been subjected to school-based discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying, including school-based discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying on the basis of religious affiliation, nationality, race, or ethnicity, or perceived religious affiliation, nationality, race, or ethnicity.
(b) The department’s Internet Web site shall also include a list of statewide resources for youth who have been affected by gangs, gun violence, and psychological trauma caused by violence at home, at school, and in the community.
r1 score is: 
0.1316455696202531
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) The California Public Records Act requires a public agency, defined to mean any state or local agency, to make its public records available for public inspection and to make copies available upon request and payment of a fee, unless the public records are exempt from disclosure. The act prohibits limitations on access to a public record based upon the purpose for which the public record is being requested if the public record is otherwise subject to disclosure, authorizes public agencies to adopt requirements that allow for faster, more efficient, or greater access to public records, and requires local agencies, except school districts, that voluntarily post public records on an open data Internet Resource, as defined, to post those public records in an open format that meets specified criteria.
This bill would authorize a public agency that posts a public record on its Internet Web site to refer a member of the public that requests to inspect the public record to the public agency’s Internet Web site where the public record is posted. This bill would require, if a member of the public requests a copy of the public record due to an inability to access or reproduce the public record from the Internet Web site where the public record is posted, the public agency to promptly provide a copy of the public record to the member of the public, as specified.
(2)  Existing constitutional provisions require that a statute that limits the right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
(3)The California Constitution requires local agencies, for the purpose of ensuring public access to the meetings of public bodies and the writings of public officials and agencies, to comply with a statutory enactment that amends or enacts laws relating to public records or open meetings and contains findings demonstrating that the enactment furthers the constitutional requirements relating to this purpose.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 6253 of the Government Code is amended to read:
6253.
(a) Public records are open to inspection at all times during the office hours of the state or local agency and every person has a right to inspect any public record, except as hereafter provided. Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be available for inspection by any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions that are exempted by law.
(b) Except with respect to public records exempt from disclosure by express provisions of law, each state or local agency, upon a request for a copy of records that reasonably describes an identifiable record or records, shall make the records promptly available to any person upon payment of fees covering direct costs of duplication, or a statutory fee if applicable. Upon request, an exact copy shall be provided unless impracticable to do so.
(c) Each agency, upon a request for a copy of records, shall, within 10 days from receipt of the request, determine whether the request, in whole or in part, seeks copies of disclosable public records in the possession of the agency and shall promptly notify the person making the request of the determination and the reasons therefor. In unusual circumstances, the time limit prescribed in this section may be extended by written notice by the head of the agency or his or her designee to the person making the request, setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. No notice shall specify a date that would result in an extension for more than 14 days. When the agency dispatches the determination, and if the agency determines that the request seeks disclosable public records, the agency shall state the estimated date and time when the records will be made available. As used in this section, “unusual circumstances” means the following, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the particular request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request.
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are demanded in a single request.
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein.
(4) The need to compile data, to write programming language or a computer program, or to construct a computer report to extract data.
(d) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit an agency to delay or obstruct the inspection or copying of public records. The notification of denial of any request for records required by Section 6255 shall set forth the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial.
(e) Except as otherwise prohibited by law, a state or local agency may adopt requirements for itself that allow for faster, more efficient, or greater access to records than prescribed by the minimum standards set forth in this chapter.
(f) In addition to maintaining public records for public inspection during the office hours of the public agency, a public agency may comply with subdivision (a) by posting any public record on its Internet Web site and, in response to a request for a public record posted on the Internet Web site, directing a member of the public to the location on the Internet Web site where the public record is posted. However, if after the public agency directs a member of the public to the Internet Web site, the member of the public requesting the public record requests a copy of the public record due to an inability to access or reproduce the public record from the Internet Web site, the public agency shall promptly provide a copy of the public record pursuant to subdivision (b).
SEC. 2.
The Legislature finds and declares that Section 1 of this act, which amends Section 6253 of the Government Code, imposes a limitation on the public’s right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional provision, the Legislature makes the following findings to demonstrate the interest protected by this limitation and the need for protecting that interest:
The state has a very strong interest in ensuring both the transparency of, and efficient use of limited resources by, public agencies. In order to protect this interest, it is necessary to allow public agencies that have already increased the public’s access to public records by posting public records on the public agencies’ Internet Web sites to refer requests for posted public records to these Internet Web sites.
SEC. 3.
The Legislature finds and declares that Section 1 of this act, which amends Section 6253 of the Government Code, furthers, within the meaning of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution, the purposes of that constitutional section as it relates to the right of public access to the meetings of local public bodies or the writings of local public officials and local agencies. Pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution, the Legislature makes the following findings:
Since this act would authorize local agencies to make disclosures of public records by posting the public records on their Internet Web sites, thus making public record disclosures by local agencies more quickly and cost effectively, this act furthers the purpose of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.1592039800995025
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG^2 tested on CA can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law requires a probation officer, upon delivery of a minor who has been taken into temporary custody, to immediately investigate the circumstances of the minor and the facts surrounding the minor being taken into custody and to immediately release the minor to the custody of his or her parent, legal guardian, or responsible relative unless evidence before the court demonstrates that continuance in the home is contrary to the child’s welfare, and one or more specified circumstances is present, including, among others, that the minor is destitute.
This bill would delete several of those specified circumstances. The bill would also prohibit the probation officer, when deciding whether to detain a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court and who has been removed from the custody of his or her parent or guardian by the juvenile court, from considering specified information, including, among others, the minor’s status as a dependent of the juvenile court or as the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. The bill would require a probation officer to immediately release that minor to the custody of the child welfare services department or his or her current foster parent or other caregiver, except as specified. By increasing the duties imposed on local child welfare services departments, this bill would create a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
Existing law prohibits the probation officer from detaining a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. Existing law also prohibits the probation officer from detaining a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. This bill would instead prohibit the probation officer from detaining a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. The bill would instead prohibit the probation officer from detaining a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. The bill would instead prohibit the probation officer from detaining a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court. By imposing additional duties on the probation officer, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 628 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
628.
(a) (1) Upon delivery to the probation officer of a minor who has been taken into temporary custody under the provisions of this article, the probation officer shall immediately investigate the circumstances of the minor and the facts surrounding his or her being taken into custody and shall immediately release the minor to the custody of his or her parent, legal guardian, or responsible relative unless it can be demonstrated upon the evidence before the court that continuance in the home is contrary to the minor’s welfare and one or more of the following conditions exist:
(A) Continued detention of the minor is a matter of immediate and urgent necessity for the protection of the minor or reasonable necessity for the protection of the person or property of another.
(B) The minor is likely to flee the jurisdiction of the court.
(C) The minor has violated an order of the juvenile court.
(2) The probation officer’s decision to detain a minor who is currently a dependent of the juvenile court pursuant to Section 300 or the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court pursuant to Section 300 and who has been removed from the custody of his or her parent or guardian by the juvenile court shall not be based on any of the following:
(A) The minor’s status as a dependent of the juvenile court or as the subject of a petition to declare him or her a dependent of the juvenile court.
(B) A determination that continuance in the minor’s current placement is contrary to the minor’s welfare.
(C) The child welfare services department’s inability to provide a placement for the minor.
(3) The probation officer shall immediately release a minor described in paragraph (2) to the custody of the child welfare services department or his or her current foster parent or other caregiver unless the probation officer determines that one or more of the conditions in paragraph (1) exist.
(4) This section does not limit a probation officer’s authority to refer a minor to child welfare services.
(b) If the probation officer has reason to believe that the minor is at risk of entering foster care placement as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 727.4, the probation officer shall, as part of the investigation undertaken pursuant to subdivision (a), make reasonable efforts, as described in paragraph (5) of subdivision (d) of Section 727.4, to prevent or eliminate the need for removal of the minor from his or her home.
(c) In any case in which there is reasonable cause for believing that a minor who is under the care of a physician or surgeon or a hospital, clinic, or other medical facility and cannot be immediately moved is a person described in subdivision (d) of Section 300, the minor shall be deemed to have been taken into temporary custody and delivered to the probation officer for the purposes of this chapter while he or she is at the office of the physician or surgeon or that medical facility.
(d) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature that this subdivision shall comply with paragraph (29) of subsection (a) of Section 671 of Title 42 of the United States Code as added by the Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-351). It is further the intent of the Legislature that the identification and notification of relatives shall be made as early as possible after the removal of a youth who is at risk of entering foster care placement.
(2) If the minor is detained and the probation officer has reason to believe that the minor is at risk of entering foster care placement, as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 727.4, then the probation officer shall conduct, within 30 days, an investigation in order to identify and locate all grandparents, adult siblings, and other relatives of the child, as defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 319, including any other adult relatives suggested by the parents. The probation officer shall provide to all adult relatives who are located, except when that relative’s history of family or domestic violence makes notification inappropriate, within 30 days of the date on which the child is detained, written notification and shall also, whenever appropriate, provide oral notification, in person or by telephone, of all the following information:
(A) The child has been removed from the custody of his or her parent or parents, or his or her guardians.
(B) An explanation of the various options to participate in the care and placement of the child and support for the child’s family, including any options that may be lost by failing to respond. The notice shall provide information about providing care for the child, how to become a foster family home or approved relative or nonrelative extended family member as defined in Section 362.7, and additional services and support that are available in out-of-home placements. The notice shall also include information regarding the Kin-GAP Program (Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 11360) of Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 9), the CalWORKs program for approved relative caregivers (Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200) of Part 3 of Division 9), adoption and adoption assistance (Chapter 2.1 (commencing with Section 16115) of Part 4 of Division 9), as well as other options for contact with the child, including, but not limited to, visitation. When oral notification is provided, the probation officer is not required to provide detailed information about the various options to help with the care and placement of the child.
(3) The probation officer shall use due diligence in investigating the names and locations of the relatives pursuant to paragraph (2), including, but not limited to, asking the child in an age-appropriate manner about relatives important to the child, consistent with the child’s best interest, and obtaining information regarding the location of the child’s adult relatives.
(4) To the extent allowed by federal law as a condition of receiving funding under Title IV-E of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 670 et seq.), if the probation officer did not conduct the identification and notification of relatives, as required in paragraph (2), but the court orders foster care placement, the probation officer shall conduct the investigation to find and notify relatives within 30 days of the placement order. Nothing in this section shall be construed to delay foster care placement for an individual child.
SEC. 2.
To the extent that this act has an overall effect of increasing the costs already borne by a local agency for programs or levels of service mandated by the 2011 Realignment Legislation within the meaning of Section 36 of Article XIII of the California Constitution, it shall apply to local agencies only to the extent that the state provides annual funding for the cost increase. Any new program or higher level of service provided by a local agency pursuant to this act above the level for which funding has been provided shall not require a subvention of funds by the state nor otherwise be subject to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.6440677966101694
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law provides that a pupil is deemed to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if the pupil satisfies one of the specified requirements. Until July 1, 2017, existing law authorizes a school district within the boundaries of which at least one parent or the legal guardian of a pupil is physically employed for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week to allow that pupil to attend a school in that school district through grade 12 if the parent or legal guardian of the pupil so chooses and if the parent or legal guardian of the pupil continues to be physically employed by an employer situated within the attendance boundaries of the school district.
This bill would indefinitely extend the operation of the provision authorizing the school district within the boundaries of which a parent or legal guardian of a pupil is physically employed for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week to allow that pupil to attend a school in that school district.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires a pupil to comply with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week. Existing law defines a pupil to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week. Existing law defines a pupil to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week. Existing law defines a pupil to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week. Existing law defines a pupil to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48204 of the Education Code, as amended by Section 1.5 of Chapter 554 of the Statutes of 2015, is amended to read:
48204.
(a) Notwithstanding Section 48200, a pupil complies with the residency requirements for school attendance in a school district, if he or she is any of the following:
(1) (A) A pupil placed within the boundaries of that school district in a regularly established licensed children’s institution, or a licensed foster home, or a family home pursuant to a commitment or placement under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 200) of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(B) An agency placing a pupil in a home or institution described in subparagraph (A) shall provide evidence to the school that the placement or commitment is pursuant to law.
(2) A pupil who is a foster child who remains in his or her school of origin pursuant to subdivisions (f) and (g) of Section 48853.5.
(3) A pupil for whom interdistrict attendance has been approved pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 46600) of Part 26.
(4) A pupil whose residence is located within the boundaries of that school district and whose parent or legal guardian is relieved of responsibility, control, and authority through emancipation.
(5) A pupil who lives in the home of a caregiving adult that is located within the boundaries of that school district. Execution of an affidavit under penalty of perjury pursuant to Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 6550) of Division 11 of the Family Code by the caregiving adult is a sufficient basis for a determination that the pupil lives in the home of the caregiver, unless the school district determines from actual facts that the pupil is not living in the home of the caregiver.
(6) A pupil residing in a state hospital located within the boundaries of that school district.
(7) A pupil whose parent or legal guardian resides outside of the boundaries of that school district but is employed and lives with the pupil at the place of his or her employment within the boundaries of the school district for a minimum of three days during the school week.
(b) (1) A school district may deem a pupil to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance in the school district if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil is physically employed within the boundaries of that school district for a minimum of 10 hours during the school week.
(2) This subdivision does not require the school district within which at least one parent or the legal guardian of a pupil is employed to admit the pupil to its schools. A school district shall not, however, refuse to admit a pupil under this subdivision on the basis, except as expressly provided in this subdivision, of race, ethnicity, sex, parental income, scholastic achievement, or any other arbitrary consideration.
(3) The school district in which the residency of either the parents or the legal guardian of the pupil is established, or the school district to which the pupil is to be transferred under this subdivision, may prohibit the transfer of the pupil under this subdivision if the governing board of the school district determines that the transfer would negatively impact the court-ordered or voluntary desegregation plan of the school district.
(4) The school district to which the pupil is to be transferred under this subdivision may prohibit the transfer of the pupil if the school district determines that the additional cost of educating the pupil would exceed the amount of additional state aid received as a result of the transfer.
(5) The governing board of a school district that prohibits the transfer of a pupil pursuant to paragraph (2), (3), or (4) is encouraged to identify, and communicate in writing to the parents or the legal guardian of the pupil, the specific reasons for that determination and is encouraged to ensure that the determination, and the specific reasons for the determination, are accurately recorded in the minutes of the board meeting in which the determination was made.
(6) The average daily attendance for pupils admitted pursuant to this subdivision is calculated pursuant to Section 46607.
(7) Unless approved by the sending school district, this subdivision does not authorize a net transfer of pupils out of a school district, calculated as the difference between the number of pupils exiting the school district and the number of pupils entering the school district, in a fiscal year in excess of the following amounts:
(A) For a school district with an average daily attendance for that fiscal year of less than 501, 5 percent of the average daily attendance of the school district.
(B) For a school district with an average daily attendance for that fiscal year of 501 or more, but less than 2,501, 3 percent of the average daily attendance of the school district or 25 pupils, whichever amount is greater.
(C) For a school district with an average daily attendance of 2,501 or more, 1 percent of the average daily attendance of the school district or 75 pupils, whichever amount is greater.
(8) Once a pupil is deemed to have complied with the residency requirements for school attendance pursuant to this subdivision and is enrolled in a school in a school district the boundaries of which include the location where at least one parent or the legal guardian of a pupil is physically employed, the pupil does not have to reapply in the next school year to attend a school within that school district and the governing board of the school district shall allow the pupil to attend school through grade 12 in that school district if the parent or legal guardian so chooses and if at least one parent or the legal guardian of the pupil continues to be physically employed by an employer situated within the attendance boundaries of the school district, subject to paragraphs (2) to (7), inclusive.
SEC. 2.
Section 48204 of the Education Code, as amended by Section 2.5 of Chapter 554 of the Statutes of 2015, is repealed.
r1 score is: 
0.6682352941176469
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law makes it the duty of a coroner to inquire into and determine the circumstances, manner, and cause of deaths under prescribed conditions, including deaths under such circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground to suspect that the death was caused by the criminal act of another. Existing law provides for the execution of a certificate of religious belief stating that postmortem anatomical dissection or specified procedures would violate the religious convictions of the person, and, except as specified, prohibits a coroner from performing the procedure. Existing law requires a postmortem examination or autopsy to include certain procedures, including, among others, taking available fingerprints and palm prints and a dental examination including dental charts and dental X-rays, as specified. Existing law authorizes the postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains to include full body X-rays.
This bill, except as specified, would authorize a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency required to perform an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions to use an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, to fulfill specified postmortem examination or autopsy requirements. The bill would prohibit a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions from using an electronic image system to conduct the autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would require a dissection autopsy to be performed to determine the cause and manner of death if the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would allow an autopsy to be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system without regard to the existence of a properly-executed certificate of religious belief.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to perform certain procedures, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b) or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520. Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. This bill would instead require the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to use an electronic image system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 27521 of the Government Code is amended to read:
27521.
(a) A postmortem examination or autopsy conducted at the discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency upon an unidentified body or human remains is subject to this section.
(b) A postmortem examination or autopsy shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following procedures:
(1) Taking of all available fingerprints and palm prints.
(2) A dental examination consisting of dental charts and dental X-rays of the deceased person’s teeth, which may be conducted on the body or human remains by a qualified dentist as determined by the coroner.
(3) The collection of tissue, including a hair sample, or body fluid samples for future DNA testing, if necessary.
(4) Frontal and lateral facial photographs with the scale indicated.
(5) Notation and photographs, with a scale, of significant scars, marks, tattoos, clothing items, or other personal effects found with or near the body.
(6) Notations of observations pertinent to the estimation of the time of death.
(7) Precise documentation of the location of the remains.
(c) The postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains may include full body X-rays.
(d) (1) At the sole and exclusive discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491, an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, may be used to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b) or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520.
(2) Nothing in this subdivision imposes a duty upon any coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing autopsies pursuant to Section 27491 to use an electronic image system to perform autopsies or to acquire the capability to do so.
(3) A coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491 shall not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. If the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law, then a dissection autopsy shall be performed in order to determine the cause and manner of death.
(4) An autopsy may be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system notwithstanding the existence of a certificate of religious belief properly executed in accordance with Section 27491.43.
(e) The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy shall prepare a final report of investigation in a format established by the Department of Justice. The final report shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b).
(f) The body of an unidentified deceased person shall not be cremated or buried until the jaws (maxilla and mandible with teeth), or other bone sample if the jaws are not available, and other tissue samples are retained for future possible use. Unless the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy has determined that the body of the unidentified deceased person has suffered significant deterioration or decomposition, the jaws shall not be removed until immediately before the body is cremated or buried. The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency responsible for a postmortem examination or autopsy shall retain the jaws and other tissue samples for one year after a positive identification is made, and no civil or criminal challenges are pending, or indefinitely.
(g) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and any other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit dental charts and dental X-rays of the unidentified deceased person to the Department of Justice on forms supplied by the Department of Justice within 45 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered.
(h) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit the final report of investigation to the Department of Justice within 180 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered. The final report of investigation shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b), and any anthropology report, fingerprints, photographs, and autopsy report.
r1 score is: 
0.6519524617996604
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons including, among others, those authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, or a certification for livestock stockpond use.
This bill would restrict the state board’s authorization to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a registration or certification to uses that are year-round.
Existing law requires a person who diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license to install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage, as specified, and with certain exceptions.
This bill would delay those requirements for 2 years.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. This bill would instead require the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1841 of the Water Code is amended to read:
1841.
(a) The board may adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by either of the following:
(1) Persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use,
if the registered use is year-round,
or certification for livestock stockpond
use.
use, if the certified use is year-round.
(2) Persons required to comply with measurement and reporting regulations pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 5103.
(b) The initial regulations that the board adopts pursuant to this section shall be adopted as emergency regulations in accordance with Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The adoption of the initial regulations is an emergency and shall be considered by the Office of Administrative Law as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare. Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, any emergency regulations adopted under this section shall remain in effect until revised by the board.
(c) The adoption of the initial regulations pursuant to this article is exempt from Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code.
SECTION 1.
Section 1840 of the
Water Code
is amended to read:
1840.
(a)(1)Except as provided in subdivision (b), a person who, on or after January 1, 2018, diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license shall install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage. The measurements shall be made using the best available technologies and best professional practices, as defined in Section 5100, using a device or methods satisfactory to the board, as follows:
(A)A device shall be capable of continuous monitoring of the rate and quantity of water diverted and shall be properly maintained. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence that the device has been installed with the first report submitted after installation of the device. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence demonstrating that the device is functioning properly as part of the reports submitted at five-year intervals after the report documenting installation of the device, or upon request of the board.
(B)In developing regulations pursuant to Section 1841, the board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurement of the total amount diverted and the rate of diversion. The board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurements within an acceptable range of error, including the following:
(i)Electricity records dedicated to a pump and recent pump test.
(ii)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable streamflow rating curve.
(iii)Staff gage calibrated for a flume or weir.
(iv)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable storage capacity curve.
(v)Pressure transducer and acceptable storage capacity curve.
(2)The permittee or licensee shall maintain a record of all diversion monitoring that includes the date, time, and diversion rate at time intervals of one hour or less, and the total amount of water diverted. These records shall be included with reports submitted under the permit or license, as required under subdivision (c), or upon request of the board.
(b)(1)The board may modify the requirements of subdivision (a) upon finding either of the following:
(A)That strict compliance is infeasible, is unreasonably expensive, would unreasonably affect public trust uses, or would result in the waste or unreasonable use of water.
(B)That the need for monitoring and reporting is adequately addressed by other conditions of the permit or license.
(2)The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold of subdivision (a) in a watershed or subwatershed, after considering the diversion reporting threshold in relation to quantity of water within the watershed or subwatershed. The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold to 25 acre-feet or more if it finds that the benefits of the additional information within the watershed or subwatershed are substantially outweighed by the cost of installing measuring devices or employing methods for measurement for diversions at the 10-acre-foot threshold.
(c)At least annually, a person who diverts water under a registration, permit, or license shall report to the board the following information:
(1)The quantity of water diverted by month.
(2)The maximum rate of diversion by months in the preceding calendar year.
(3)The information required by subdivision (a), if applicable.
(d)Compliance with the applicable requirements of this section is a condition of every registration, permit, or license.
r1 score is: 
0.5849582172701949
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or drug to drive a vehicle. Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined. Existing law also makes it unlawful for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a commercial motor vehicle and concurrently do any act forbidden by law or neglect any duty imposed by law that proximately causes bodily injury to another person other than the driver.
This bill would make it unlawful, commencing July 1, 2018, for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a motor vehicle when a passenger for hire, as defined, is a passenger in the vehicle at the time of the offense. The bill would also make it unlawful, commencing July 1, 2018, for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a motor vehicle, as specified, and concurrently do any act or neglect any duty that proximately causes bodily injury to another person other than the driver. Because this bill would expand the application of a crime to more people, it would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle if the person has 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within 3 hours after the driving. Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle if the person has 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within 3 hours after the driving. Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle if the person has 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within 3 hours after the driving. Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle if the person has 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within 3 hours after the driving. Existing law makes it unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle if
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 23152 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
23152.
(a) It is unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle.
(b) It is unlawful for a person who has 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a vehicle.
For purposes of this article and Section 34501.16, percent, by weight, of alcohol in a person’s blood is based upon grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
In any prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within three hours after the driving.
(c) It is unlawful for a person who is addicted to the use of any drug to drive a vehicle. This subdivision shall not apply to a person who is participating in a narcotic treatment program approved pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 11875) of Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 10.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
(d) It is unlawful for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in Section 15210. In a prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within three hours after the driving.
(e) Commencing July 1, 2018, it shall be unlawful for a person who has 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a motor vehicle when a passenger for hire is a passenger in the vehicle at the time of the offense. For purposes of this subdivision, “passenger for hire” means a passenger for whom consideration is contributed or expected as a condition of carriage in the vehicle, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, operator, agent, or any other person having an interest in the vehicle. In a prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within three hours after the driving.
(f) It is unlawful for a person who is under the influence of any drug to drive a vehicle.
(g) It is unlawful for a person who is under the combined influence of any alcoholic beverage and drug to drive a vehicle.
SEC. 2.
Section 23153 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
23153.
(a) It is unlawful for a person, while under the influence of any alcoholic beverage, to drive a vehicle and concurrently do any act forbidden by law, or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver.
(b) It is unlawful for a person, while having 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a vehicle and concurrently do any act forbidden by law, or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver.
In any prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of the performance of a chemical test within three hours after driving.
(c) In proving the person neglected any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, it is not necessary to prove that any specific section of this code was violated.
(d) It is unlawful for a person, while having 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in Section 15210 and concurrently to do any act forbidden by law or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver. In a prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of performance of a chemical test within three hours after driving.
(e) Commencing July 1, 2018, it shall be unlawful for a person, while having 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood to drive a motor vehicle when a passenger for hire is a passenger in the vehicle at the time of the offense, and concurrently to do any act forbidden by law or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver. For purposes of this subdivision, “passenger for hire” means a passenger for whom consideration is contributed or expected as a condition of carriage in the vehicle, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, operator, agent, or any other person having an interest in the vehicle. In a prosecution under this subdivision, it is a rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person had 0.04 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time of performance of a chemical test within three hours after driving.
(f) It is unlawful for a person, while under the influence of any drug, to drive a vehicle and concurrently do any act forbidden by law, or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver.
(g) It is unlawful for a person, while under the combined influence of any alcoholic beverage and drug, to drive a vehicle and concurrently do any act forbidden by law, or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle, which act or neglect proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than the driver.
SEC. 3.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.576271186440678
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires local educational agencies to actively and systematically seek out all individuals with exceptional needs, from birth to 21 years of age, inclusive, including children not enrolled in public school programs, who reside in a school district or are under the jurisdiction of a special education local plan area or a county office of education.
This bill would require the State Department of Education, on or before July 1, 2018, to develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners, as specified, with the goal of providing guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of those pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils. The bill would require the department to post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site. In developing the manual, the bill would require the department to review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government, and to establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of specified experts and practitioners. As part of implementing these provisions, the bill would require the department, with input from the stakeholder group, to develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual, as specified, but would condition the actual implementation of the plan on an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute. The bill would require the department to submit the plan to the State Board of Education, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018. The bill would state the intent of the Legislature that its provisions be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires all pupils who qualify for special education services, including those who receive special education services, to be treated as English learners. This bill would require the department to develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners. The bill would require the manual to provide guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils, and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) There are approximately 1.4 million English learners in California public schools, representing 22 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these English learners are also pupils who qualify for special education services.
(b) There are approximately 734,000 pupils with disabilities in California public schools, representing 12 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these pupils with disabilities are also English learners.
(c) The accurate identification of English learners who qualify for special education services, the classification of pupils with disabilities as English learners, and the determination of appropriate services for these pupils is in the interest of pupils, families, educators, local educational agencies, and the state.
(d) The identification, assessment, support, reclassification, and special education exit of these pupils involve complex and interrelated processes, and educators would benefit from state guidance on how best to identify these pupils.
(e) Educators would also benefit from state guidance about how to support the learning needs of these pupils.
(f) Other states have provided their educators with such guidance through manuals on the topic of English learners and special education. The federal government recommends that states develop guidance for educators on this topic.
(g) California, which enrolls one in every three English learners in the country, and 35 percent of all English learners who receive special education services in the United States, should provide such guidance for its educators in the form of a manual and professional development on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying these pupils.
SEC. 2.
Section 56305 is added to the Education Code, to read:
56305.
(a) On or before July 1, 2018, the department shall develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners.
(b) The goal of the manual shall be to provide guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils.
(c) In developing the manual, the department shall do both of the following:
(1) Review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government.
(2) Establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of experts and practitioners. These individuals shall have expertise or experience in either special education, English learner education, or in both.
(d) The manual shall include all of the following topics:
(1) Guidance for accurately identifying English learners who may have disabilities and accurately classifying pupils with disabilities as English learners, including guidance on avoiding overidentification and underidentification of these pupils for special education services and in different disability categories and in different grade spans.
(2) Information on second language acquisition and progress, including guidance on distinguishing between language acquisition and disabilities.
(3) Examples of prereferral strategies, early interventions, and early intervening strategies specifically addressing the needs of English learners, including examples of early interventions for pupils in preschool and the primary grades who are acquiring foundational language and literacy skills.
(4) Guidance on referral processes.
(5) Guidance on the use of assessments, including the use of multiple measures as well as assessment accommodations for both language and disability, including assessment accommodations in primary languages.
(6) Guidance on the consideration of extrinsic factors, such as vision, hearing, and health, in the identification of pupils.
(7) Guidance on the development of individualized education programs for English learners, including the composition of individualized education program teams.
(8) Guidance on how to support the language and content learning needs of English learners who may have disabilities, including how to do so in the least restrictive environment, as described in Section 56040.1, and in a manner that enables access to the core curriculum.
(9) Guidance regarding placement or continued placement in bilingual programs and on providing services and instruction in primary languages.
(10) Guidance on special education exit and English learner reclassification processes for English learners with disabilities.
(11) Information on the role of culture and acculturation, to the extent it is related to the process of identifying English learners for special education services.
(12) Guidance for working with families, including guidance on meeting the needs of nonnative English speaking parents, guardians, and educational rights holders in special education proceedings.
(13) Examples of any plans or processes used by local educational agencies for continuous evaluation and systemic review and guidance on sharing information between special education and English learner programs within local educational agencies for the purpose of tracking effectiveness, to the extent permitted under state and federal law regarding the privacy of pupil information.
(14) State and federal law, regulations, and guidance related to the rights of English learners and pupils with disabilities.
(e) All guidance in the manual shall be consistent with state and federal law, regulations, and guidance regarding English learners and special education.
(f) The manual shall be written for ease of use by educators. The department is encouraged to incorporate features such as flowcharts, checklists, sample forms, and case examples.
(g) The department shall post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site.
(h) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “English learners” includes pupils who have been classified as English learners and those who may later be classified as English learners.
(2) “Pupils with disabilities” includes pupils who have been or may later be identified as individuals with exceptional needs, as defined in Section 56026, including pupils who have been or may later be identified as having a low incidence disability, as defined in Section 56026.5, or a severe disability, as defined in Section 56030.5, and also includes pupils with disabilities who may be later classified as English learners.
(i) (1) (A) In implementing this section, the department, with input from the stakeholder group, shall develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual. The plan shall address how the state and local educational agencies can collaborate in meeting both of these objectives in a cost-effective manner.
(B) Implementation of the plan developed pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be contingent upon an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute.
(2) The plan shall be submitted to the state board, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018.
(j) It is the intent of the Legislature that this section be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
r1 score is: 
0.4772727272727272
==================================
target summary is: 
Under existing law, the Occupational Safety and Health Standards Board within the Department of Industrial Relations promulgates and enforces occupational safety and health standards for the state, including standards dealing with toxic materials and harmful physical agents. Under existing law, the Division of Occupational Safety and Health is required to enforce all occupational safety and health standards, as specified. A violation of these standards and regulations under specific circumstances is a crime.
This bill would, by June 1, 2017, require the division to convene an advisory committee to develop a regulation that requires a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume and would authorize certain entities and people to be on the advisory committee, including, among others, practicing physicians and surgeons from affected specialties. The bill would require the division, in developing the regulation to do certain things, including evaluating the use of certain standards adopted by specified organizations as a benchmark. The bill would also require the division, when developing the proposed regulation, to take into consideration recommendations on the evacuation of plume from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration or National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. The bill would, by June 1, 2018, require the division to submit to the board the proposed regulation. The bill would, by July 1, 2019, require the board to adopt the proposed regulation.
The bill would provide that compliance with general room ventilation standards or the use of surgical masks does not satisfy the requirements for protection from surgical plumes under these provisions. The bill would provide that the use of respirators does not satisfy the requirements for protection from surgical plumes under these provisions, except as specified. The bill would require the manufacturer of a plume scavenging system to provide evidence that the system meets specified minimum requirements when installed, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
The bill would specify that these provisions do not limit the authority of the division to develop, or limit the authority of the board to adopt, a regulation with a broader scope or broader application than required by these provisions.
By expanding the definition of an existing crime, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
(1) Existing law requires a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume. Existing law requires a health facility to submit to the board the proposed regulation requiring a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume. This bill would instead require a health facility to submit to the board the proposed regulation requiring a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume. The bill would instead require a health facility to submit to the board the proposed regulation requiring a health facility to submit to the board the proposed regulation requiring a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume. By imposing additional duties on health facilities, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 144.9 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
144.9.
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Division” means the Division of Occupational Safety and Health.
(2) “Electrocautery device” means a device that is electrically heated to cut, ablate, or coagulate human tissue for therapeutic purposes.
(3) “Electrosurgical device” means a device that uses a radio frequency electric current passing through the patient to cut, ablate, or coagulate human tissue for therapeutic purposes.
(4) “Energy-based device” means a device that uses energy to ablate, cauterize, or mechanically manipulate target human tissue including lasers, electrosurgical generators, broadband light sources, ultrasonic instruments, plasma generators, bone saws, and drills.
(5) “Health facility” means a health facility as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code.
(6) “Plume” means noxious airborne contaminants generated as byproducts of the use of energy-based devices, electrosurgical devices, electrocautery devices, or mechanical tools during surgical, diagnostic, or therapeutic procedures.
(7) “Plume scavenging system” means smoke evacuators, laser plume evacuators, plume scavengers, and local exhaust ventilators that capture and neutralize plume at the site of origin and before plume can make ocular contact or contact with the respiratory tract of employees.
(b) (1) The division, by June 1, 2017, shall convene an advisory committee to develop a regulation that requires a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume. The advisory committee may include health facilities, practicing physicians and surgeons from affected specialties, registered nurses and other affected health care personnel, labor and specialty organizations representing affected registered nurses, labor and specialty organizations representing other affected health care personnel, and other stakeholders.
(2) By June 1, 2018, the division shall submit to the board the proposed regulation requiring a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume.
(3) In developing the regulation, the division shall do all of the following:
(A) Evaluate using as a benchmark the standards titled “Systems for evacuation of plume generated by medical devices” (ISO 16571) adopted by the International Organization for Standardization and the standards titled “Plume scavenging in surgical, diagnostic, therapeutic, and aesthetic settings” (CSA Z305.13-13) adopted by the CSA Group.
(B) Take into consideration recommendations on the evacuation of plume from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
(C) Take into consideration the standards titled “Systems for evacuation of plume generated by medical devices” (ISO 16571) adopted by the International Organization for Standardization in developing a standard establishing how much plume shall be captured by a plume scavenging system.
(D) Include a requirement in the regulation for employers to provide training to all workers foreseeably participating in procedures that involve the creation of plume. The training shall include, but not be limited to, general education on the contents of plume, the circumstances in which it is generated, the associated health and safety hazards, and appropriate use of the plume scavenging equipment and systems utilized by the health facility. The training shall be designed to provide an opportunity for interactive questions and answers with a person knowledgeable about occupational exposure to plume and the specific equipment utilized to scavenge plume.
(c) The board shall, by July 1, 2019, adopt the proposed regulation of the division, except as specified in subdivision (f), requiring a health facility to evacuate or remove plume through the use of a plume scavenging system in all settings that employ techniques that involve the creation of plume.
(d) (1) Nothing in this section alters, amends, expands, or reduces existing general room ventilation standards or requirements. These plume scavenging standards are in addition to general room ventilation standards or requirements, and compliance with general room ventilation standards shall not satisfy the requirements of this section.
(2) Evidence that the plume scavenging system conforms to the minimum requirements of this section when installed, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, shall be provided by the manufacturer.
(e) The use of surgical masks shall not satisfy the requirements of this section. The use of respirators shall not satisfy the requirements of this section except when, due to medical necessity, the plume scavenging system is not able to be located where it effectively captures plume.
(f) This section shall not limit the authority of the division to develop a regulation, or the authority of the board to adopt a regulation, that is broader in scope or broader in application than required by this section.
SEC. 2.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.5381165919282511
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law expresses the intent of the Legislature for all public schools teaching kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, inclusive, operated by a school district, to develop, in cooperation with specified community partners, a comprehensive school safety plan, as defined.
This bill would express the intent of the Legislature to include coaches among the community partners. The bill would also express the intent of the Legislature to expand the scope of the safety plan.
(2) Existing law provides that each school district and county office of education is responsible for the overall development of all comprehensive school safety plans for its schools operating kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, inclusive.
This bill would expand the school safety plans to address sanctioned activities before and after school. To the extent this expansion would impose additional duties on school districts and county offices of education, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
(2)
(3)
Existing law requires the schoolsite council of each school of a school district and of a county office of education to write and develop a comprehensive school safety plan relevant to the needs and resources of that particular school, except as specified for small school districts. Existing law authorizes the schoolsite council to delegate this responsibility to a school safety planning committee made up of specified members. Existing law requires the comprehensive school safety plan to include, among other things, the identification of appropriate strategies and programs that will provide or maintain a high level of school safety and address the school’s procedures for complying with existing laws related to school safety, including the development of specified procedures and policies.
This bill would include a coach of the school, if the school has a coach, to the list of specified members to serve on a school safety planning committee. The bill would additionally require a comprehensive school safety plan to include any other strategies aimed at the prevention of, response to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school
campus, including sanctioned activities before and after school.
campus.
By imposing additional duties on school districts and county offices of education regarding the development of school safety plans, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
(3)
(4)
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires a comprehensive school safety plan to develop strategies aimed at preventing, responding to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school campus, including activities before and after school. Existing law requires a comprehensive school safety plan to develop strategies aimed at preventing, responding to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school campus, including activities before and after school. This bill would require a comprehensive school safety plan to develop strategies aimed at preventing, responding to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school campus, including activities before and after school. The bill would require a comprehensive school safety plan to develop strategies aimed at preventing, responding to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school campus, including activities before and after school. By imposing additional duties on local law enforcement agencies and school districts, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 32280 of the Education Code is amended to read:
32280.
It is the intent of the Legislature that all California public schools teaching kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, inclusive, operated by a school district, in cooperation with local law enforcement agencies, community leaders, parents, pupils, teachers, administrators, coaches, and other persons who may be interested in the prevention of campus crime and violence and the health and safety of the campus community, to develop a comprehensive school safety plan that addresses the safety concerns identified through a systematic planning process. For the purposes of this section, law enforcement agencies include local police departments, county sheriffs’ offices, school district police or security departments, probation departments, and district attorneys’ offices. For purposes of this section, a “safety plan” means a plan to develop strategies aimed at the prevention of, response to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school campus, including sanctioned activities before and after school.
SEC. 2.
Section 32281 of the Education Code is amended to read:
32281.
(a) Each school district and county office of education is responsible for the overall development of all comprehensive school safety plans for its schools operating kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12,
inclusive.
inclusive, including sanctioned activities before and after school.
(b) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (d) with regard to a small school district, the schoolsite council established pursuant to former Section 52012, as it existed before July 1, 2005, or Section 52852 shall write and develop a comprehensive school safety plan relevant to the needs and resources of that particular school.
(2) The schoolsite council may delegate this responsibility to a school safety planning committee made up of the following members:
(A) The principal or the principal’s designee.
(B) One teacher who is a representative of the recognized certificated employee organization.
(C) One parent whose child attends the school.
(D) One classified employee who is a representative of the recognized classified employee organization.
(E) One coach of the school, if the school has a coach.
(F) Other members, if desired.
(3) The schoolsite council shall consult with a representative from a law enforcement agency in the writing and development of the comprehensive school safety plan.
(4) In the absence of a schoolsite council, the members specified in paragraph (2) shall serve as the school safety planning committee.
(c) Nothing in this article shall limit or take away the authority of school boards as guaranteed under this code.
(d) (1) Subdivision (b) shall not apply to a small school district, as defined in paragraph (2), if the small school district develops a districtwide comprehensive school safety plan that is applicable to each schoolsite.
(2) As used in this article, “small school district” means a school district that has fewer than 2,501 units of average daily attendance at the beginning of each fiscal year.
(e) (1) When a principal or his or her designee verifies through local law enforcement officials that a report has been filed of the occurrence of a violent crime on the schoolsite of an elementary or secondary school at which he or she is the principal, the principal or the principal’s designee may send to each pupil’s parent or legal guardian and each school employee a written notice of the occurrence and general nat incidents may be developed by administrators of the school district or county office of education in consultation with law enforcement officials and with a representative of an exclusive bargaining unit of employees of that school district or county office of education, if he or she chooses to participate. The school district or county office of education may elect not to disclose those portions of the comprehensive school safety plan that include tactical responses to criminal incidents.
(2) As used in this article, “tactical responses to criminal incidents” means steps taken to safeguard pupils and staff, to secure the affected school premises, and to apprehend the criminal perpetrator or perpetrators.
(3) Nothing in this subdivision precludes the governing board of a school district or county office of education from conferring in a closed session with law enforcement officials pursuant to Section 54957 of the Government Code to approve a tactical response plan developed in consultation with those officials pursuant to this subdivision. Any vote to approve the tactical response plan shall be announced in open session following the closed session.
(4) Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to reduce or eliminate the requirements of Section 32282.
SEC. 3.
Section 32282 of the Education Code is amended to read:
32282.
(a) The comprehensive school safety plan shall include, but not be limited to, both of the following:
(1) Assessing the current status of school crime committed on school campuses and at school-related functions.
(2) Identifying appropriate strategies and programs that will provide or maintain a high level of school safety and address the school’s procedures for complying with existing laws related to school safety, which shall include the development of all of the following:
(A) Child abuse reporting procedures consistent with Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 11164) of Chapter 2 of Title 1 of Part 4 of the Penal Code.
(B) Disaster procedures, routine and emergency, including adaptations for pupils with disabilities in accordance with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12101 et seq.). The disaster procedures shall also include, but not be limited to, both of the following:
(i) Establishing an earthquake emergency procedure system in every public school building having an occupant capacity of 50 or more pupils or more than one classroom. A school district or county office of education may work with the Office of Emergency Services and the Alfred E. Alquist Seismic Safety Commission to develop and establish the earthquake emergency procedure system. The system shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
(I) A school building disaster plan, ready for implementation at any time, for maintaining the safety and care of pupils and staff.
(II) A drop procedure whereby each pupil and staff member takes cover under a table or desk, dropping to his or her knees, with the head protected by the arms, and the back to the windows. A drop procedure practice shall be held at least once each school quarter in elementary schools and at least once a semester in secondary schools.
(III) Protective measures to be taken before, during, and following an earthquake.
(IV) A program to ensure that pupils and both the certificated and classified staff are aware of, and properly trained in, the earthquake emergency procedure system.
(ii) Establishing a procedure to allow a public agency, including the American Red Cross, to use school buildings, grounds, and equipment for mass care and welfare shelters during disasters or other emergencies affecting the public health and welfare. The school district or county office of education shall cooperate with the public agency in furnishing and maintaining the services as the school district or county office of education may deem necessary to meet the needs of the community.
(C) Policies pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 48915 for pupils who committed an act listed in subdivision (c) of Section 48915 and other school-designated serious acts that would lead to suspension, expulsion, or mandatory expulsion recommendations pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 48900) of Chapter 6 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2.
(D) Procedures to notify teachers of dangerous pupils pursuant to Section 49079.
(E) A discrimination and harassment policy consistent with the prohibition against discrimination contained in Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 200) of Part 1.
(F) The provisions of any schoolwide dress code, pursuant to Section 35183, that prohibits pupils from wearing “gang-related apparel,” if the school has adopted that type of a dress code. For those purposes, the comprehensive school safety plan shall define “gang-related apparel.” The definition shall be limited to apparel that, if worn or displayed on a school campus, reasonably could be determined to threaten the health and safety of the school environment. A schoolwide dress code established pursuant to this section and Section 35183 shall be enforced on the school campus and at any school-sponsored activity by the principal of the school or the person designated by the principal. For purposes of this paragraph, “gang-related apparel” shall not be considered a protected form of speech pursuant to Section 48950.
(G) Procedures for safe ingress and egress of pupils, parents, and school employees to and from school.
(H) A safe and orderly environment conducive to learning at the school.
(I) The rules and procedures on school discipline adopted pursuant to Sections 35291 and 35291.5.
(J) Any other strategies aimed at the prevention of, response to, and education about, potential incidents involving crime, violence, or medical emergency on the school
campus, including sanctioned activities before and after school.
campus.
(b) It is the intent of the Legislature that schools develop comprehensive school safety plans using existing resources, including the materials and services of the partnership, pursuant to this chapter. It is also the intent of the Legislature that schools use the handbook developed and distributed by the School/Law Enforcement Partnership Program entitled “Safe Schools: A Planning Guide for Action” in conjunction with developing their plan for school safety.
(c) Each schoolsite council or school safety planning committee, in developing and updating a comprehensive school safety plan, shall, where practical, consult, cooperate, and coordinate with other schoolsite councils or school safety planning committees.
(d) The comprehensive school safety plan may be evaluated and amended, as needed, by the school safety planning committee, but shall be evaluated at least once a year, to ensure that the comprehensive school safety plan is properly implemented. An updated file of all safety-related plans and materials shall be readily available for inspection by the public.
(e) As comprehensive school safety plans are reviewed and updated, the Legislature encourages all plans, to the extent that resources are available, to include policies and procedures aimed at the prevention of bullying.
(f) The comprehensive school safety plan, as written and updated by the schoolsite council or school safety planning committee, shall be submitted for approval pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 32288.
SEC. 4.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.4878787878787878
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law, the Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), an initiative measure enacted by the voters as Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, establishes the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission. Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, in consultation with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, to develop and administer instructions for the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report, which gathers specified information on mental health spending as a result of the MHSA, including the expenditures of funds distributed to each county.
This bill would require the department, based on the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report, to compile information, in total and by county on an annual basis, that includes, among other things, the total amount of MHSA revenue, the amount of MHSA money received and expended for each specified component of the MHSA program, and the amount of MHSA money spent on program administration. The bill would require the department to make the collected information available to the Legislature and the public on its Internet Web site no later than July 1, 2018, and annually thereafter.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, in consultation with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, to develop and administer instructions for the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report. Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, to collect and publicly report all of the following information, by statewide total and by individual county: (1) Total revenue received from the Mental Health Services Act (MHSA) funds distributed to each county. Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, in consultation with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, to develop and administer instructions for the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report. Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, in consultation with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, to develop and administer instructions for the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report. Existing law requires the State Department of Health Care Services, no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, to collect and publicly report all of the following information, by statewide total and by individual county: (1)
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 5899 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
5899.
(a) The State Department of Health Care Services, in consultation with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, shall develop and administer instructions for the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report. The instructions shall include a requirement that the county certify the accuracy of this report. This report shall be submitted electronically to the department and to the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission. The department and the commission shall annually post each county’s report on its website in a timely manner.
(b) The department, in consultation with the commission and the County Behavioral Health Directors Association of California, shall revise the instructions described in subdivision (a) by July 1, 2017, and as needed thereafter, to improve the timely and accurate submission of county revenue and expenditure data.
(c) The purpose of the Annual Mental Health Services Act Revenue and Expenditure Report is as follows:
(1) Identify the expenditures of Mental Health Services Act (MHSA) funds that were distributed to each county.
(2) Quantify the amount of additional funds generated for the mental health system as a result of the MHSA.
(3) Identify unexpended funds, and interest earned on MHSA funds.
(4) Determine reversion amounts, if applicable, from prior fiscal year distributions.
(d) This report is intended to provide information that allows for the evaluation of all of the following:
(1) Children’s systems of care.
(2) Prevention and early intervention strategies.
(3) Innovative projects.
(4) Workforce education and training.
(5) Adults and older adults systems of care.
(6) Capital facilities and technology needs.
(e) Based on the report required pursuant to subdivision (a), the State Department of Health Care Services, no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, shall collect and publicly report all of the following information, by statewide total and by individual county:
(1) Total revenue received from the Mental Health Services Act (MHSA).
(2) The amount of MHSA funds received by the counties for each of the following components of the act:
(A) Community services and supports.
(B) Prevention and early intervention.
(C) Innovation.
(D) Housing that is not funded under subparagraph (A).
(E) Workforce education and training that is not funded under subparagraph (A).
(F) Capital facilities and technological needs that are not funded under subparagraph (A).
(G) Other mental health services not reflected in subparagraphs (A) to (F), inclusive.
(3) MHSA revenues expended in the prior fiscal year.
(4) The amount of the MHSA funds expended by the counties for each of the components listed in paragraph (2).
(5) Funds held in prudent reserve by each county.
(6) Distributions from the counties’ prudent reserves.
(7) For the most recent fiscal year, the amount of unspent MHSA funds for each component listed in paragraph (2).
(8) MHSA funds subject to reversion and funds that have reverted.
(f) The information required to be reported pursuant to subdivision (e) shall be reported for each fiscal year and shall include statewide totals. The information shall be updated annually, including revisions when necessary. Revisions shall be identified as figures that have been revised from prior year reports. Annual reports shall include fiscal information for a period of not less than 10 fiscal years and shall include information for the most recent fiscal year.
(g) (1) In addition to the information required pursuant to subdivision (e), the department shall publicly report annual county program expenditures for each of the following:
(A) Program administration.
(B) Research and evaluation.
(C) Funds used to support joint powers authorities or other statewide entities.
(2) A county that cannot supply some or all of the information required by paragraph (1) shall provide an explanation as to why and shall provide a timeframe for making the information available.
(3) The department shall work with counties and other local mental health agencies to determine how best to make the information required in paragraph (1) available, including estimates. Estimated information shall be reported as an estimate.
(h) Counties may submit to the department information about programs that address the following areas:
(1) Homelessness.
(2) Criminal justice diversion or related programs.
(3) Suicide prevention.
(4) School-based mental health programs designed to reduce school failure.
(5) Employment or other programs intended to reduce unemployment.
(6) Programs intended to reduce or prevent involvement with the child welfare system.
(7) Stigma reduction.
(8) Programs specifically designed to reduce racial and ethnic disparities.
(9) Programs specifically designed to meet the needs of the following populations:
(A) Veterans.
(B) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQQ).
(C) Children.
(D) Transition-age youth.
(E) Adults.
(F) Older adults.
(i) The department shall compile the information in subdivisions (e) to (h), inclusive, collected from counties or other local mental health agencies to promote public understanding of MHSA funds that are distributed statewide and for each county, as well as how those funds are spent and what funds remain available for expenditure.
(j) The department shall consult with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission, the State Controller’s Office, the Department of Finance, counties and other local mental health agencies, and any other agency required to implement this section.
(k) The department shall consolidate reporting requirements when feasible and shall propose to the appropriate policy committees of the Legislature strategies to refine and consolidate reporting requirements to meet the goals of this section.
(l) The department shall make the information required by this section available to the Legislature and the public on its Internet Web site no later than July 1, 2018, and annually thereafter.
(m) If a county does not submit the annual revenue and expenditure report described in subdivision (a) by the required deadline, the department may withhold MHSA funds until the reports are submitted.
r1 score is: 
0.5917431192660549
==================================
target summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law and the Corporation Tax Law allow various credits against the taxes imposed by those laws.
This bill, for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
would allow a credit under those laws to an employer who pays a qualified employee a wage equal to or exceeding the state minimum wage during the taxable year, as provided. The bill would define a qualified employee as an individual with a disability who may be paid a special minimum wage under existing state or federal law. The credit would be allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the hours worked by the qualified employee.
The bill would require the Franchise Tax Board to submit a report containing specified data relating to these credits to the Legislature by June 1, 2022.
This bill would take effect immediately as a tax levy.
produced summary is: 
Existing law allows a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 17053.75 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
17053.75.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified employer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 23675 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001). For purposes of this section, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership or “S” Corporation.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the net “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 23675.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 23675 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
23675.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “tax,” as defined by Section 23036, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified taxpayer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 17053.75 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001). For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 17053.75.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 3.
It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to comply with the requirements of Section
41.
41 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
SEC. 4.
This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of Article IV of the
California
Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
r1 score is: 
0.5450121654501217
==================================
