Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG^2 tested on CA, can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law provides for the administration and operation of juvenile court schools by the county board of education.
This bill would express the Legislature’s intent that juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study that prepares pupils for high school graduation and career entry and fulfills the requirements for admission to the California State University and the University of California.
Existing law prescribes the course of study a pupil is required to complete while in grades 9 to 12, inclusive, in order to receive a diploma of graduation, and authorizes the governing board of a school district to prescribe other coursework requirements that are in addition to the statewide requirements. Existing law exempts pupils in foster care and pupils who are homeless children or youths from local graduation requirements and also requires a school district and county office of education to accept coursework satisfactorily completed by those pupils while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school.
This bill would make that exemption and requirement to accept coursework satisfactorily completed applicable to former juvenile court school pupils, as defined. The bill would also require a county office of education to issue a diploma of graduation to a pupil who completes statewide coursework requirements for graduation while attending a juvenile court school but does not complete coursework and other requirements that are in addition to the statewide graduation requirements. By placing additional requirements on school districts and county offices of education, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain cidden">
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.0306236080178173
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law, California Public Records Act, requires that public records are open to inspection, subject to various exceptions. The act excepts from public inspection the home addresses and home telephone numbers of state employees and employees of a school district or county office of education, provided that disclosure can be made in specified instances, including to an employee organization.
This bill would, with certain exceptions, extend the limitation on the disclosure of the personal information described above to all employees of a public agency and would extend the limitation to include personal cellular telephone numbers and birth dates. By increasing the duties of local officials, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
Existing law additionally excepts from public inspection specified information regarding persons paid by the state to provide in-home supportive services. Existing law requires copies of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of those persons to be made available, upon request, to an exclusive bargaining agent and to any labor organization seeking representation rights, as specified.
This bill would additionally require personal cellular telephone numbers of those persons to be made available to an exclusive bargaining agent and to any labor organization seeking representation rights.
Existing constitutional provisions require that a statute that limits the right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
The California Constitution requires local agencies, for the purpose of ensuring public access to the meetings of public bodies and the writings of public officials and agencies, to comply with a statutory enactment that amends or enacts laws relating to public records or open meetings and contains findings demonstrating that the enactment furthers the constitutional requirements relating to this purpose.
This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to those provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 6253.2 of the Government Code, as amended by Section 1 of Chapter 37 of the Statutes of 2013, is amended to read:
6253.2.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, information regarding persons paid by the state to provide in-home supportive services pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 12300) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or services provided pursuant to Section 14132.95, 14132.952, or 14132.956 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is not subject to public disclosure pursuant to this chapter, except as provided in subdivision (b).
(b) Copies of names, addresses, home telephone numbers, and personal cellular telephone numbers of persons described in subdivision (a) shall be made available, upon request, to an exclusive bargaining agent and to any labor organization seeking representation rights pursuant to Section 12301.6 or 12302.25 of the Welfare and Institutions Code or the In-Home Supportive Services Employer-Employee Relations Act (Title 23 (commencing with Section 110000)). This information shall not be used by the receiving entity for any purpose other than the employee organizing, representation, and assistance activities of the labor organization.
(c) This section applies solely to individuals who provide services under the In-Home Supportive Services Program (Article 7 (commencing with Section 12300) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code), the Personal Care Services Program pursuant to Section 14132.95 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, the In-Home Supportive Services Plus Option pursuant to Section 14132.952 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or the Community First Choice Option pursuant to Section 14132.956 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(d) Nothing in this section is intended to alter or shall be interpreted to alter the rights of parties under the In-Home Supportive Services Employer-Employee Relations Act (Title 23 (commencing with Section 110000)) or any other labor relations law.
(e) This section shall be inoperative if the Coordinated Care Initiative becomes inoperative pursuant to Section 34 of the act that added this subdivision.
SEC. 2.
Section 6253.2 of the Government Code, as amended by Section 2 of Chapter 37 of the Statutes of 2013, is amended to read:
6253.2.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, information regarding persons paid by the state to provide in-home supportive services pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 12300) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code or personal care services pursuant to Section 14132.95 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is not subject to public disclosure pursuant to this chapter, except as provided in subdivision (b).
(b) Copies of names, addresses, home telephone numbers, and personal cellular telephone numbers of persons described in subdivision (a) shall be made available, upon request, to an exclusive bargaining agent and to any labor organization seeking representation rights pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 12301.6 or Section 12302.25 of the Welfare and Institutions Code or Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 3500) of Division 4 of Title 1. This information shall not be used by the receiving entity for any purpose other than the employee organizing, representation, and assistance activities of the labor organization.
(c) This section applies solely to individuals who provide services under the In-Home Supportive Services Program (Article 7 (commencing with Section 12300) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code) or the Personal Care Services Program pursuant to Section 14132.95 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(d) Nothing in this section is intended to alter or shall be interpreted to alter the rights of parties under the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 3500) of Division 4) or any other labor relations law.
(e) This section shall be operative only if Section 1 of the act that added this subdivision becomes inoperative pursuant to subdivision (e) of that section.
SEC. 3.
Section 6254.3 of the Government Code is amended to read:
6254.3.
(a) The home addresses, home telephone numbers, personal cellular telephone numbers, and birth dates of all employees of a public agency shall not be deemed to be public records and shall not be open to public inspection, except that disclosure of that information may be made as follows:
(1) To an agent, or a family member of the individual to whom the information pertains.
(2) To an officer or employee of another public agency when necessary for the performance of its official duties.
(3) To an employee organization pursuant to regulations and decisions of the Public Employment Relations Board, except that the home addresses and any phone numbers on file with the employer of employees performing law enforcement-related functions, and the birth date of any employee, shall not be disclosed.
(4) To an agent or employee of a health benefit plan providing health services or administering claims for health services to public agencies and their enrolled dependents, for the purpose of providing the health services or administering claims for employees and their enrolled dependents.
(b) Upon written request of any employee, a public agency shall not disclose the employee’s home address, home telephone number, personal cellular telephone number, or birth date pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) and an agency shall remove the employee’s home address, home telephone number, and personal cellular telephone number from any mailing list maintained by the agency, except if the list is used exclusively by the agency to contact the employee.
SEC. 4.
The Legislature finds and declares that Sections 1, 2, and 3 of this act, which amend Sections 6253.2 and 6254.3 of the Government Code, impose a limitation on the public’s right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies within the meaning of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution. Pursuant to that constitutional provision, the Legislature makes the following findings to demonstrate the interest protected by this limitation and the need for protecting that interest:
In order to protect the privacy and well-being of state and local employees, it is necessary to limit access to their personal and emergency contact information.
SEC. 5.
The Legislature finds and declares that Sections 1, 2, and 3 of this act, which amend Sections 6253.2 and 6254.3 of the Government Code, further, within the meaning of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution, the purposes of that constitutional section as it relates to the right of public access to the meetings of local public bodies or the writings of local public officials and local agencies. Pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution, the Legislature makes the following findings:
In protecting the privacy and well-being of state and local employees, by appropriately limiting general access to their personal and emergency contact information, this bill furthers the purpose of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution.
SEC. 6.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district under this act would result from a legislative mandate that is within the scope of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b) of Section 3 of Article I of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.0373333333333333
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law prescribes definitions and requirements for certain civil actions relating to construction defect litigation and limits claims to violations of specified standards.
This bill would make a nonsubstantive change to these provisions.
produced summary is: 
(1) Existing law regulates the placement of exterior doors and windows in residential structures. Existing law requires exterior doors and windows to be installed with specified fasteners and requires exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. Existing law also requires exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. This bill would require exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. The bill would also require exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. By requiring exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. (2) Existing law regulates certain exterior doors and windows. Existing law requires a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit and requires a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit. This bill would require a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit and would require a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 896 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
896.
In
any
an
action seeking recovery of damages arising out of, or related to deficiencies in, the residential construction, design, specifications, surveying, planning, supervision, testing, or observation of construction, a builder, and to the extent set forth in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 910), a general contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, individual product manufacturer, or design professional, shall, except as specifically set forth in this title, be liable for, and the claimant’s claims or causes of action shall be limited to violation of, the following standards, except as specifically set forth in this title. This title applies to original construction intended to be sold as an individual dwelling unit. As to condominium conversions, this title does not apply to or does not supersede any other statutory or common law.
(a) With respect to water issues:
(1) A door shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through the door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, if any.
(2) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow water to pass beyond, around, or through the window, patio door, or deck door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(3) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(4) Roofs, roofing systems, chimney caps, and ventilation components shall not allow water to enter the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers located within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, and sheathing, if any.
(5) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow water to pass into the adjacent structure. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(6) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow unintended water to pass within the systems themselves and cause damage to the systems. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(7) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(8) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to limit the installation of the type of flooring materials typically used for the particular application.
(9) Hardscape, including paths and patios, irrigation systems, landscaping systems, and drainage systems, that are installed as part of the original construction, shall not be installed in such a way as to cause water or soil erosion to enter into or come in contact with the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(10) Stucco, exterior siding, exterior walls, including, without limitation, exterior framing, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures and the systems of those components and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall be installed in such a way so as not to allow unintended water to pass into the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers of the system, including any internal barriers located within the system itself. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(11) Stucco, exterior siding, and exterior walls shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(12) Retaining and site walls and their associated drainage systems shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through its designed or actual moisture barriers including, without limitation, any internal barriers, so as to cause damage. This standard does not apply to those portions of any wall or drainage system that are designed to have water flow beyond, around, or through them.
(13) Retaining walls and site walls, and their associated drainage systems, shall only allow water to flow beyond, around, or through the areas designated by design.
(14) The lines and components of the plumbing system, sewer system, and utility systems shall not leak.
(15) Plumbing lines, sewer lines, and utility lines shall not corrode so as to impede the useful life of the systems.
(16) Sewer systems shall be installed in such a way as to allow the designated amount of sewage to flow through the system.
(17) Showers, baths, and related waterproofing systems shall not leak water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or the interior of other components.
(18)  The waterproofing system behind or under ceramic tile and tile countertops shall not allow water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or other components so as to cause damage. Ceramic tile systems shall be designed and installed so as to deflect intended water to the waterproofing system.
(b) With respect to structural issues:
(1) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, shall not contain significant cracks or significant vertical displacement.
(2) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs shall not cause the structure, in whole or in part, to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, and underlying soils shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria set by applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for chemical deterioration or corrosion resistance in effect at the time of original construction.
(4) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria for earthquake and wind load resistance, as set forth in the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances in effect at the time of original construction.
(c) With respect to soil issues:
(1) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, damage to the structure built upon the soil or engineered retaining wall.
(2) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, the structure to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Soils shall not cause, in whole or in part, the land upon which no structure is built to become unusable for the purpose represented at the time of original sale by the builder or for the purpose for which that land is commonly used.
(d) With respect to fire protection issues:
(1) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria of the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for fire protection of the occupants in effect at the time of the original construction.
(2) Fireplaces, chimneys, chimney structures, and chimney termination caps shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire outside the fireplace enclosure or chimney.
(3) Electrical and mechanical systems shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire.
(e) With respect to plumbing and sewer issues:
Plumbing and sewer systems shall be installed to operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action may be brought for a violation of this subdivision more than four years after close of escrow.
(f) With respect to electrical system issues:
Electrical systems shall operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this subdivision more than four years from close of escrow.
(g) With respect to issues regarding other areas of construction:
(1) Exterior pathways, driveways, hardscape, sidewalls, sidewalks, and patios installed by the original builder shall not contain cracks that display significant vertical displacement or that are excessive. However, no action shall be brought upon a violation of this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(2) Stucco, exterior siding, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall not contain significant cracks or separations.
(3) (A) To the extent not otherwise covered by these standards, manufactured products, including, but not limited to, windows, doors, roofs, plumbing products and fixtures, fireplaces, electrical fixtures, HVAC units, countertops, cabinets, paint, and appliances shall be installed so as not to interfere with the products’ useful life, if any.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph, “useful life” means a representation of how long a product is warranted or represented, through its limited warranty or any written representations, to last by its manufacturer, including recommended or required maintenance. If there is no representation by a manufacturer, a builder shall install manufactured products so as not to interfere with the product’s utility.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, “manufactured product” means a product that is completely manufactured offsite.
(D) If no useful life representation is made, or if the representation is less than one year, the period shall be no less than one year. If a manufactured product is damaged as a result of a violation of these standards, damage to the product is a recoverable element of damages. This subparagraph does not limit recovery if there has been damage to another building component caused by a manufactured product during the manufactured product’s useful life.
(E) This title does not apply in any action seeking recovery solely for a defect in a manufactured product located within or adjacent to a structure.
(4) Heating shall be installed so as to be capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor in any living space if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted prior to January 1, 2008, or capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor and two feet from exterior walls in all habitable rooms at the design temperature if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted on or before January 1, 2008.
(5) Living space air-conditioning, if any, shall be provided in a manner consistent with the size and efficiency design criteria specified in Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations or its successor.
(6) Attached structures shall be constructed to comply with interunit noise transmission standards set by the applicable government building codes, ordinances, or regulations in effect at the time of the original construction. If there is no applicable code, ordinance, or regulation, this paragraph does not apply. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from the original occupancy of the adjacent unit.
(7) Irrigation systems and drainage shall operate properly so as not to damage landscaping or other external improvements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from close of escrow.
(8) Untreated wood posts shall not be installed in contact with soil so as to cause unreasonable decay to the wood based upon the finish grade at the time of original construction. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(9) Untreated steel fences and adjacent components shall be installed so as to prevent unreasonable corrosion. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(10) Paint and stains shall be applied in such a manner so as not to cause deterioration of the building surfaces for the length of time specified by the paint or stain manufacturers’ representations, if any. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than five years from close of escrow.
(11) Roofing materials shall be installed so as to avoid materials falling from the roof.
(12) The landscaping systems shall be installed in such a manner so as to survive for not less than one year. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(13) Ceramic tile and tile backing shall be installed in such a manner that the tile does not detach.
(14) Dryer ducts shall be installed and terminated pursuant to manufacturer installation requirements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(15) Structures shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to impair the occupants’ safety because they contain public health hazards as determined by a duly authorized public health official, health agency, or governmental entity having jurisdiction. This paragraph does not limit recovery for any damages caused by a violation of any other paragraph of this section on the grounds that the damages do not constitute a health hazard.
r1 score is: 
0.1194029850746268
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law authorizes the Employment Development Department to administer the disability compensation program, which provides for the partial compensation for the wage losses suffered by eligible individuals unemployed because of sickness or injury. Existing law requires, after a claim for benefits is filed, the department to determine the eligibility of the claimant for benefits and to notify the claimant of the determination. Existing law allows the claimant to appeal to an administrative law judge within 20 days from mailing or personal service of the determination, which may be extended for good cause.
This bill would provide that, before March 1, 2018, any individual who submits an appeal to an administrative law judge within 30 days from the mailing or personal service of the determination has good cause to extend the 20-day period. The bill would, commencing March 1, 2018, extend that appeal period to within 30 days from mailing or personal service of the determination notice.
Existing law generally requires, upon the filing of a claim for disability benefits, the Employment Development Department to promptly make a computation on the claim setting forth the maximum amount of benefits potentially payable during the disability benefit period and the weekly benefit amount and to promptly notify the claimant of the computation. Existing law allows the claimant to, within 20 days after the mailing or personal service of the notice of computation or recomputation, protest the accuracy of the computation or recomputation, requires the department to consider any protest and notify the claimant of the recomputation or denial of recomputation, and allows the claimant to appeal to an administrative law judge within 20 days from mailing or personal service of the notice of denial of recomputation, which may be extended for good cause.
This bill would provide that, before March 1, 2018, any individual who submits an appeal to an administrative law judge within 30 days from the mailing or personal service of the notice has good cause to extend the 20-day period. The bill would, commencing March 1, 2018, extend that period allowed to the claimant to protest the accuracy of the computation or recomputation to the department to within 30 days of the mailing or personal service of the notice. The bill would also, commencing March 1, 2018, extend the appeal period to the administrative law judge to within 30 days from mailing or personal service of the notice of denial of recomputation.
Under existing law, any person who receives an overpayment of disability benefits is liable for the amount overpaid unless specified conditions apply. Existing law requires the Director of Employment Development to determine the amount of the overpayment and to notify the recipient of the basis of the overpayment determination by mail or personal service, as provided. Existing law allows the person affected to file an appeal to an administrative law judge within 20 days from the date of mailing or serving of the notice of overpayment determination. Existing law requires, after affording reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing, the administrative law judge to make a decision regarding the findings set forth in the overpayment determination notice, and requires that decision to be final unless within 20 days from the date of notification or mailing of the judge’s decision a further appeal is initiated to the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board, as specified.
This bill would provide that, before March 1, 2018, any individual who submits an appeal to an administrative law judge within 30 days from the mailing or personal service of the notice has good cause to extend the 20-day period. The bill would, commencing March 1, 2018, extend that appeal period to the administrative law judge to within 30 days of mailing or serving of the determination notice. The bill would also, commencing March 1, 2018, extend the appeal period to the appeals board to within 30 days from the date of notification or mailing of the administrative law judge’s decision.
produced summary is: 
(1) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions. (2) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the commission determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 2707.2 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is amended to read:
2707.2.
(a) The department shall consider the facts submitted by the employer pursuant to Section 2707.1 and make a determination as to the eligibility of the claimant for benefits. The department shall promptly notify the claimant of the determination and the reasons therefor. The claimant may appeal therefrom to an administrative law judge within 20 days from mailing or personal service of the notice of determination. The 20-day period may be extended for good cause. The director shall be an interested party to any appeal.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 2707.2 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2707.2.
(a) The department shall consider the facts submitted by the employer pursuant to Section 2707.1 and make a determination as to the eligibility of the claimant for benefits. The department shall promptly notify the claimant of the determination and the reasons therefor. The claimant may appeal therefrom to an administrative law judge within 30 days from mailing or personal service of the notice of determination. The 30-day period may be extended for good cause. The director shall be an interested party to any appeal.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall become operative on March 1, 2018.
SEC. 3.
Section 2707.4 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is amended to read:
2707.4.
(a) The claimant may, within 20 days after the mailing or personal service of the notice of computation or recomputation, protest the accuracy of the computation or recomputation. The 20-day period may be extended for good cause. The department shall consider any such protest and shall promptly notify the claimant of the recomputation or denial of recomputation. The claimant may appeal from a notice of denial of recomputation in the manner prescribed in Section 2707.2. The director shall be an interested party to any appeal.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 4.
Section 2707.4 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2707.4.
(a) The claimant may, within 30 days after the mailing or personal service of the notice of computation or recomputation, protest the accuracy of the computation or recomputation. The 30-day period may be extended for good cause. The department shall consider any such protest and shall promptly notify the claimant of the recomputation or denial of recomputation. The claimant may appeal from a notice of denial of recomputation in the manner prescribed in Section 2707.2. The director shall be an interested party to any appeal.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall become operative on March 1, 2018.
SEC. 5.
Section 2707.7 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2707.7.
(a) Notwithstanding Sections 2707.2 and 2707.4, any individual who submits an appeal under one or more of those sections to an administrative law judge within 30 days from mailing or personal service of the applicable notice shall be considered to have good cause to extend the 20-day period.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 6.
Section 2707.8 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2707.8.
(a) An administrative law judge, after affording a reasonable opportunity for fair hearing, shall, unless the appeal is withdrawn, affirm, reverse, modify, or set aside any determination that is appealed under this article. The claimant and the director shall be promptly notified in writing of the administrative law judge’s decision, together with reasons for the decision. The decision shall be final unless, within 30 days after mailing of the decision, further appeal is initiated to the appeals board pursuant to Section 1336. The 30-day limitation may be extended for good cause.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
SEC. 7.
Section 2737 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is amended to read:
2737.
(a) Within 20 days from the date of mailing or serving of the notice of overpayment determination, the person affected may file an appeal to an administrative law judge. The director shall be an interested party to any such appeal. The administrative law judge, after affording reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing, shall, unless the appeal is withdrawn, affirm, reverse, modify, or set aside the findings set forth in the notice of overpayment determination. The party and the director shall be notified of the administrative law judge’s decision, together with his or her reasons therefor, which shall be final unless within 20 days from the date of notification or mailing of the decision a further appeal is initiated to the appeals board pursuant to Section 1336. The 20-day period for an appeal to the administrative law judge or to the appeals board may be extended for good cause.
“Good
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 8.
Section 2737 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2737.
(a) Within 30 days from the date of mailing or serving of the notice of overpayment determination, the person affected may file an appeal to an administrative law judge. The director shall be an interested party to any such appeal. The administrative law judge, after affording reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing, shall, unless the appeal is withdrawn, affirm, reverse, modify, or set aside the findings set forth in the notice of overpayment determination. The party and the director shall be notified of the administrative law judge’s decision, together with his or her reasons therefor, which shall be final unless within 30 days from the date of notification or mailing of the decision a further appeal is initiated to the appeals board pursuant to Section 1336. The 30-day period for an appeal to the administrative law judge or to the appeals board may be extended for good cause.
(b) “Good cause,” as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c) This section shall become operative on March 1, 2018.
SEC. 9.
Section 2737.5 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:
2737.5.
(a) Notwithstanding Section 2737, any individual who submits an appeal under that section to an administrative law judge within 30 days from mailing or personal service of the notice of overpayment determination shall be considered to have good cause to extend the 20-day period.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed.
r1 score is: 
0.1357234314980794
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law, known as the Donahoe Higher Education Act, sets forth the missions and functions of the segments of postsecondary education in this state. The California State University, under the administration of the Trustees of the California State University, the California Community Colleges, under the administration of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, and the University of California, under the administration of the Regents of the University of California, constitute the 3 segments of public postsecondary education in this state. Provisions of the Donahoe Higher Education Act apply to the University of California only to the extent that the regents act, by appropriate resolution, to make those provisions applicable.
An existing chapter of the Donahoe Higher Education Act relates to the use of academic materials, and provides that a court of competent jurisdiction is authorized to grant relief that is necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including through the issuance of an injunction.
This chapter also includes the College Textbook Transparency Act which, among other things, provides that certain faculty members, defined as adopters, are authorized to receive royalties or other compensation from sales of course materials that include the instructor’s writing or other work, subject to the employer’s standing policies or collective bargaining agreements relating to employee conflicts of interest.
This bill would add to this chapter a provision that requires the trustees and the governing board of each community college district, and requests the regents, to require their faculty members to annually disclose, on or before April 15, 2017, and on or before April 15 of each year thereafter, on a form and in a manner to be determined by the trustees, the governing board, or the regents, as appropriate, all of the income he or she received in the immediately preceding calendar year from a publisher, periodical, or provider of online content for royalties, advances, consulting services, or for any other purpose.
The bill would require faculty members to whom the bill is applicable to file a form even if they have no disclosable income in the calendar year. The bill would require that these forms be filed under penalty of perjury, thereby imposing a state-mandated local program by expanding the scope of the crime of perjury.
The bill would require that the information provided by the faculty members under this bill be available to the public on the Internet Web site of the institution at which the faculty members teach, as specified. The bill would authorize the trustees, community college governing boards, or regents to require a faculty member who does not file the information required under this bill in a timely manner to pay an administrative fine of up to
25% of the unreported income or $5,000, whichever is smaller,
$50,
as specified.
The bill would authorize the trustees and the community college district governing boards to expend the proceeds of these fines for general educational purposes at the campuses at which the faculty members who were assessed the fines were employed. With respect to the California State University, the bill would establish the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund as a continuously appropriated fund for the deposit of fine proceeds and their allocation to the appropriate campuses. The bill would request the regents to allocate the proceeds of any administrative fines they collect pursuant to the bill in a manner similar to that described for the California State University.
To the extent that this provision would impose new duties on community college districts, this bill would constitute a state-mandated local program.
(2)The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
(2) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that with regard to certain mandates no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
With regard to any other mandates, this bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs so mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory provisions noted above.
produced summary is: 
Existing law, the California Textbook Transparency Act, requires textbook publishers to print on the outer cover of, or within, the standard textbook, both of the following items: A summary of the substantive content between the new edition of textbooks initially published on or after January 1, 2010, and the new edition of textbooks that are to be used in connection with the accredited courses taught at that institution. Existing law requires a textbook publisher to print on the outer cover of, or within, the standard textbook, both of the following items. This bill would require a textbook publisher to print on the outer cover of, or within, the standard textbook, both of the following items.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 66406.7 of the Education Code is amended to read:
66406.7.
(a) This section shall be known and may be cited as the College Textbook Transparency Act.
(b) As used in this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “Adopter” means any faculty member or academic department or other adopting entity at an institution of higher education responsible for considering and choosing course materials to be used in connection with the accredited courses taught at that institution.
(2) “Complimentary copies” or “review course materials” only includes books that in all appearances are the same as the regular student edition of the textbook, and contain no material other than that found in the regular student edition of the textbook.
(3) “Instructor copies” or “complimentary teacher editions” means books with information that is meant to be for the exclusive use of teachers and not for students. These books contain answers and solutions, test questions, and pedagogical techniques, and are often labeled instructor’s edition or instructor’s manuals.
(4) “New edition of textbook” means a subsequent version of an earlier standard textbook. A standard textbook is the primary, full, and unabridged edition of a textbook. An abridged, alternate format, or alternate version of a standard textbook shall not be considered a new edition.
(5) “Publisher” means any publishing house, publishing firm, or publishing company that publishes textbooks or other course materials, specifically designed for postsecondary instruction.
(6) “Textbook” means a book that contains printed material and is intended for use as a source of study material for a class or group of students, a copy of which is expected to be available for the use of each of the students in that class or group. “Textbook” does not include a novel.
(7) “Unsolicited complimentary copies” means all items described in paragraph (2) and that were not requested by faculty but are sent by the publisher unsolicited by a faculty or staff member.
(c) (1) Adopters are encouraged to consider cost in the adoption of textbooks.
(2) Publishers shall facilitate the work done by adopters by providing transparency in the adoption process and shall be responsive in a timely manner to requests for information on textbook cost and content, and the full range of options.
(d) (1) On or after January 1, 2010, the publisher of a textbook shall print on the outer cover of, or within, the standard textbook, both of the following items:
(A)  For any new editions of textbooks initially published on or after January 1, 2010, a summary of the substantive content differences between the new edition and the prior edition.
(B) The copyright date of the previous edition of the textbook.
(2) For instructor copies or complimentary teacher editions, it shall be noted on the exterior of the book that the book is an instructor’s copy and is not for resale.
(e) (1) A publisher, or agent or employee of a publisher, of textbooks intended for use at a postsecondary educational institution shall respond to a request from an adopter for any of the following:
(A) A list of the products offered for sale by that publisher that are relevant to the needs and interests of adopters.
(B) The price at which the new book is available from the publisher.
(C) The copyright date of any prior edition of a textbook, if available.
(D) A list of the substantial content differences or changes made between the current edition initially published on or after January 1, 2010, and the previous edition of the textbook, including, but not necessarily limited to, new chapters, additional eras of time, new themes, or new subject matter.
(2) The information described in this subdivision shall be available in print or electronically to the adopter.
(f) Each campus bookstore at any public postsecondary educational institution shall post in its store or on its Internet Web site a disclosure of its retail pricing policy on new and used textbooks.
(g) Each public postsecondary educational institution shall encourage adopters with course material selection responsibilities to place their orders with sufficient lead time, whenever possible, to enable the university-managed bookstore or contract-managed bookstore to confirm the availability of the requested materials.
(h) This section does not limit the authority of faculty over decisions relating to the selection of textbooks.
(i)  An adopter at an institution of higher education shall not demand or receive anything of value, including the donation of equipment or goods, any payment, loan, advance, or deposit of money, present or promised, for adopting specific course materials required for coursework or instruction, except that an employee may receive any of the following:
(1) Complimentary copies, review course materials, or instructor copies. The adopters shall not sell instructor copies.
(2) Royalties or other compensation from sales of course materials that include the instructor’s writing or other work. Receipt of these royalties or compensation is subject to the employer’s standing policies or collective bargaining agreements relating to employee conflicts of
interest.
interest and, with respect to faculty members of the California State University and the California Community Colleges, subject to the requirements of Section 66407.3.
(3) Honoraria for academic peer review of course materials. Receipt of honoraria is subject to the employer’s standing policies relating to employee conflicts of interest.
(4) Training in the use of course materials and course technologies. Payment for travel and lodging and or meals shall be subject to the employer’s standing polices relating to employee conflicts of interest and compensation.
(j) A publisher or campus bookstore shall not solicit faculty for the purpose of the sale of instructor copies or complimentary teachers editions of textbooks that have been provided by a publisher at no charge to a faculty member or other employee. This subdivision does not apply to unsolicited complimentary copies.
(k) A campus bookstore shall not engage in any trade of any course material marked, or otherwise identified, as instructor copies or complementary teachers editions of textbooks.
(l) Any self-published textbook by an instructor for use with that instructor’s class shall be exempt from this section, if the instructor discloses the publishing and use of those materials to his or her employer institution.
SECTION 1.
SEC. 2.
Section 66407.3 is added to the Education Code, to read:
66407.3.
(a) The Trustees of the California State University and the governing board of each community college district shall, and the Regents of the University of California are requested to, require its faculty members to annually disclose, on or before April 15, 2017, and on or before April 15 of each year thereafter, on a form and in a manner to be determined by the trustees, the governing board, or the regents, as appropriate, all of the income he or she received in the immediately preceding calendar year from a publisher, periodical, or provider of online content for royalties, advances, consulting services, or for any other purpose.
A faculty member to whom this section is applicable shall be required to file a form even if he or she has no disclosable income in the calendar year. A faculty member shall file the form required by this section under penalty of perjury.
(b) The trustees, community college district governing boards, and regents shall ensure that the information provided by the faculty members pursuant to subdivision (a) is available to the public on the Internet Web site of the institution at which the faculty members teach. The information provided by an individual faculty member pursuant to this section shall remain available on the Internet Web site for as long as that individual is employed as a teacher at that institution.
(c) The trustees, community college district governing board, and the regents, as appropriate, may require, with proper notice and an opportunity for a hearing, a faculty member who does not file the information required pursuant to this section in a timely manner to pay an administrative fine of up to
25 percent of the unreported income or five thousand dollars ($5,000), whichever is smaller.
fifty dollars ($50).
The proceeds of any administrative fines
collected
pursuant to this subdivision shall be collected by the trustees or by a community college district governing board, as appropriate, and shall be deposited in a fund for allocation pursuant to subdivision (d).
(d) (1) The trustees shall deposit the proceeds of administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) into the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund, which is hereby established. Notwithstanding Section 13340 of the Government Code, the moneys in the California State University Faculty Royalty Disclosure Fund are continuously appropriated to the trustees for allocation for expenditure for general educational purposes at the campus at which the faculty member who was assessed the fine is employed.
(2) The governing board of a community college district is authorized to expend the proceeds of any administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) for general educational purposes at the campus at which the faculty member who was assessed the fine is employed.
(3) The regents are requested to allocate the proceeds of any administrative fines collected pursuant to subdivision (c) in a manner similar to that described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 2.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
SEC. 3.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII   B of the California Constitution for certain costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because, in that regard, this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII   B of the California Constitution.
However, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.152073732718894
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law provides for the licensure and regulation of various healing arts professions and vocations by boards within the Department of Consumer Affairs. Under existing law, it is unlawful for licensed healing arts practitioners, except as specified, to offer, deliver, receive, or accept any rebate, refund, commission, preference, patronage dividend, discount, or other consideration, in the form of money or otherwise, as compensation or inducement for referring patients, clients, or customers to any person. Existing law makes a violation of this provision a public offense punishable upon a first conviction by imprisonment, as specified, or a fine not exceeding $50,000, or by imprisonment and that fine.
This bill would provide that the payment or receipt of consideration for advertising, wherein a licensed healing arts practitioner offers or sells services through a third-party advertiser, does not constitute a referral of patients when the third-party advertiser does not itself recommend, endorse, or otherwise select a licensee. The bill would require that the fee paid to the third-party advertiser be commensurate with the service provided by the third-party advertiser. The bill would require the purchaser of the service to receive a refund of the full purchase price if the licensee determines, after consultation with the purchaser, that the service provided by the licensee is not appropriate for the purchaser, or if the purchaser elects not to receive the service for any reason and requests a refund, as specified. The bill would require that a licensee disclose in the advertisement that a consultation is required and that the purchaser will receive a refund if not eligible to receive the service. The bill would specify that these provisions do not apply to basic health care services or essential health benefits, as defined. The bill would also provide that the entity that provides advertising is required to be able to demonstrate that the licensee consented in writing to these provisions. The bill would require a third-party advertiser to make available to prospective purchasers advertisements for services of all licensees then advertising through the third-party advertiser in the applicable geographic region and to disclose, in any advertisement offering a discount price for a service, the regular, nondiscounted price for that service.
produced summary is: 
(1) Existing law provides for the licensure and regulation of chiropractic practice by the Department of Managed Health Care and makes related findings and declarations. Existing law makes related findings and declarations. This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to those provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 650 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
650.
(a) Except as provided in Chapter 2.3 (commencing with Section 1400) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, the offer, delivery, receipt, or acceptance by any person licensed under this division or the Chiropractic Initiative Act of any rebate, refund, commission, preference, patronage dividend, discount, or other consideration, whether in the form of money or otherwise, as compensation or inducement for referring patients, clients, or customers to any person, irrespective of any membership, proprietary interest, or coownership in or with any person to whom these patients, clients, or customers are referred is unlawful.
(b) The payment or receipt of consideration for services other than the referral of patients which is based on a percentage of gross revenue or similar type of contractual arrangement shall not be unlawful if the consideration is commensurate with the value of the services furnished or with the fair rental value of any premises or equipment leased or provided by the recipient to the payer.
(c) The offer, delivery, receipt, or acceptance of any consideration between a federally qualified health center, as defined in Section 1396d(l)(2)(B) of Title 42 of the United States Code, and any individual or entity providing goods, items, services, donations, loans, or a combination thereof to the health center entity pursuant to a contract, lease, grant, loan, or other agreement, if that agreement contributes to the ability of the health center entity to maintain or increase the availability, or enhance the quality, of services provided to a medically underserved population served by the health center, shall be permitted only to the extent sanctioned or permitted by federal law.
(d) Except as provided in Chapter 2.3 (commencing with Section 1400) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code and in Sections 654.1 and 654.2 of this code, it shall not be unlawful for any person licensed under this division to refer a person to any laboratory, pharmacy, clinic (including entities exempt from licensure pursuant to Section 1206 of the Health and Safety Code), or health care facility solely because the licensee has a proprietary interest or coownership in the laboratory, pharmacy, clinic, or health care facility, provided, however, that the licensee’s return on investment for that proprietary interest or coownership shall be based upon the amount of the capital investment or proportional ownership of the licensee which ownership interest is not based on the number or value of any patients referred. Any referral excepted under this section shall be unlawful if the prosecutor proves that there was no valid medical need for the referral.
(e) Except as provided in Chapter 2.3 (commencing with Section 1400) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code and in Sections 654.1 and 654.2 of this code, it shall not be unlawful to provide nonmonetary remuneration, in the form of hardware, software, or information technology and training services, as described in subsections (x) and (y) of Section 1001.952 of Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as amended October 4, 2007, as published in the Federal Register (72 Fed. Reg. 56632 and 56644), and subsequently amended versions.
(f) “Health care facility” means a general acute care hospital, acute psychiatric hospital, skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility, and any other health facility licensed by the State Department of Public Health under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
(g) Notwithstanding the other subdivisions of this section or any other provision of law, the payment or receipt of consideration for advertising, wherein a licensee offers or sells services through a third-party advertiser, shall not constitute a referral of patients when the third-party advertiser does not itself recommend, endorse, or otherwise select a licensee. The fee paid to the third-party advertiser shall be commensurate with the service provided by the third-party advertiser. If the licensee determines, after consultation with the purchaser of the service, that the service provided by the licensee is not appropriate for the purchaser or if the purchaser elects not to receive the service for any reason and requests a refund, the purchaser shall receive a refund of the full purchase price as determined by the terms of the advertising service agreement between the third-party advertiser and the licensee. The licensee shall disclose in the advertisement that a consultation is required and that the purchaser will receive a refund if not eligible to receive the service. This subdivision shall not apply to basic health care services, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1345 of the Health and Safety Code, or essential health benefits, as defined in Section 1367.005 of the Health and Safety Code and Section 10112.27 of the Insurance Code. The entity that provides the advertising shall be able to demonstrate that the licensee consented in writing to the requirements of this subdivision. A third-party advertiser shall make available to prospective purchasers advertisements for services of all licensees then advertising through the third-party advertiser in the applicable geographic region. In any advertisement offering a discount price for a service, the licensee shall also disclose the regular, nondiscounted price for that service.
(h) A violation of this section is a public offense and is punishable upon a first conviction by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170 of the Penal Code, or by a fine not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine. A second or subsequent conviction is punishable by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170 of the Penal Code, or by that imprisonment and a fine of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
r1 score is: 
0.1307506053268765
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law, the Unruh Civil Rights Act, states that all persons within this state are free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments. Under existing law, the Department of Fair Employment and Housing is responsible for receiving, investigating, conciliating, mediating, and prosecuting complaints alleging a violation of the act.
This bill would enact the Stop Consumer Racial Profiling Act of 2016, which would prohibit a business establishment from using consumer racial profiling, as defined. The bill would also make the Department of Fair Employment and Housing responsible for the enforcement of the act.
This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 12930 of the Government Code, proposed by SB 1442, to be operative only if SB 1442 and this bill are both chaptered and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, and this bill is chaptered last.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by the state for a specified reason.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 51.14 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
51.14.
(a) This act shall be known, and may be cited, as the Stop Consumer Racial Profiling Act of 2016.
(b) No business establishment shall use consumer racial profiling.
(c) For purposes of this section, “consumer racial profiling” shall mean the profiling or targeting of a person that results in differential treatment based on his or her race or ethnicity and that constitutes a denial or degradation in the product or service offered to customers. “Consumer racial profiling” includes, but is not limited to, refusal to serve, removal from the business establishment premises, segregated seating, requiring additional forms of identification, and surveillance practices based on race or ethnicity.
SEC. 2.
Section 12930 of the Government Code, as amended by Chapter 63 of the Statutes of 2016, is amended to read:
12930.
The department shall have the following functions, powers, and duties:
(a) To establish and maintain a principal office and any other offices within the state as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.
(b) To meet and function at any place within the state.
(c) To appoint attorneys, investigators, conciliators, mediators, and other employees as it may deem necessary, fix their compensation within the limitations provided by law, and prescribe their duties.
(d) To obtain upon request and utilize the services of all governmental departments and agencies and, in addition, with respect to housing discrimination, of conciliation councils.
(e) To adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind suitable procedural rules and regulations to carry out the investigation, prosecution, and dispute resolution functions and duties of the department pursuant to this part.
(f) (1) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging practices made unlawful pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12940).
(2) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging a violation of Section 51, 51.5, 51.7, 51.14, 54, 54.1, or 54.2 of the Civil Code. The remedies and procedures of this part shall be independent of any other remedy or procedure that might apply.
(3) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging, and to bring civil actions pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code for, a violation of Section 236.1 of the Penal Code. Damages awarded in any action brought by the department pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code shall be awarded to the person harmed by the violation of Section 236.1 of the Penal Code. Costs and attorney’s fees awarded in any action brought by the department pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code shall be awarded to the department. The remedies and procedures of this part shall be independent of any other remedy or procedure that might apply.
(g) In connection with any matter under investigation or in question before the department pursuant to a complaint filed under Section 12960, 12961, or 12980:
(1) To issue subpoenas to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, records, documents, and physical materials.
(2) To administer oaths, examine witnesses under oath and take evidence, and take depositions and affidavits.
(3) To issue written interrogatories.
(4) To request the production for inspection and copying of books, records, documents, and physical materials.
(5) To petition the superior courts to compel the appearance and testimony of witnesses, the production of books, records, documents, and physical materials, and the answering of interrogatories.
(h) To bring civil actions pursuant to Section 12965 or 12981 and to prosecute those civil actions before state and federal trial courts.
(i) To issue those publications and those results of investigations and research as in its judgment will tend to promote good will and minimize or eliminate discrimination in employment on the bases enumerated in this part and discrimination in housing because of race, religious creed, color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial status, disability, genetic information, or sexual orientation.
(j) To investigate, approve, certify, decertify, monitor, and enforce nondiscrimination programs proposed by a contractor to be engaged in pursuant to Section 12990.
(k) To render annually to the Governor and to the Legislature a written report of its activities and of its recommendations.
(l) To conduct mediations at any time after a complaint is filed pursuant to Section 12960, 12961, or 12980. The department may end mediation at any time.
(m) The following shall apply with respect to any accusation pending before the former Fair Employment and Housing Commission on or after January 1, 2013:
(1) If an accusation issued under former Section 12965 includes a prayer either for damages for emotional injuries as a component of actual damages, or for administrative fines, or both, or if an accusation is amended for the purpose of adding a prayer either for damages for emotional injuries as a component of actual damages, or for administrative fines, or both, with the consent of the party accused of engaging in unlawful practices, the department may withdraw an accusation and bring a civil action in superior court.
(2) If an accusation was issued under former Section 12981, with the consent of the aggrieved party filing the complaint an aggrieved person on whose behalf a complaint is filed, or the party accused of engaging in unlawful practices, the department may withdraw the accusation and bring a civil action in superior court.
(3) Where removal to court is not feasible, the department shall retain the services of the Office of Administrative Hearings to adjudicate the administrative action pursuant to Sections 11370.3 and 11502.
(n) On any Section 1094.5 Code of Civil Procedure challenge to a decision of the former Fair Employment and Housing Commission pending on or after January 1, 2013, the director or his or her designee shall consult with the Attorney General regarding the defense of that writ petition.
SEC. 2.5.
Section 12930 of the Government Code, as amended by Chapter 63 of the Statutes of 2016, is amended to read:
12930.
The department shall have the following functions, powers, and duties:
(a) To establish and maintain a principal office and any other offices within the state as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.
(b) To meet and function at any place within the state.
(c) To appoint attorneys, investigators, conciliators, mediators, and other employees as it may deem necessary, fix their compensation within the limitations provided by law, and prescribe their duties.
(d) To obtain upon request and utilize the services of all governmental departments and agencies and, in addition, with respect to housing discrimination, of conciliation councils.
(e) To adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind suitable procedural rules and regulations to carry out the investigation, prosecution, and dispute resolution functions and duties of the department pursuant to this part.
(f) (1) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging practices made unlawful pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12940).
(2) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging a violation of Section 51, 51.5, 51.7, 51.14, 54, 54.1, or 54.2 of the Civil Code. The remedies and procedures of this part shall be independent of any other remedy or procedure that might apply.
(3) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging, and to bring civil actions pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code for, a violation of Section 236.1 of the Penal Code. Damages awarded in any action brought by the department pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code shall be awarded to the person harmed by the violation of Section 236.1 of the Penal Code. Costs and attorney’s fees awarded in any action brought by the department pursuant to Section 52.5 of the Civil Code shall be awarded to the department. The remedies and procedures of this part shall be independent of any other remedy or procedure that might apply.
(4) To receive, investigate, conciliate, mediate, and prosecute complaints alleging practices made unlawful pursuant to Article 9.5 (commencing with Section 11135) of Chapter 1 of Part 1, except for complaints relating to educational equity brought under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 200) of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Education Code and investigated pursuant to the procedures set forth in Subchapter 5.1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations, and not otherwise within the jurisdiction of the department.
(A) Nothing in this part prevents the director or his or her authorized representative, in his or her discretion, from making, signing, and filing a complaint pursuant to Section 12960 or 12961 alleging practices made unlawful under Section 11135.
(B) Remedies available to the department in conciliating, mediating, and prosecuting complaints alleging these practices are the same as those available to the department in conciliating, mediating, and prosecuting complaints alleging violations of Article 1 (commencing with Section 12940) of Chapter 6.
(g) In connection with any matter under investigation or in question before the department pursuant to a complaint filed under Section 12960, 12961, or 12980:
(1) To issue subpoenas to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, records, documents, and physical materials.
(2) To administer oaths, examine witnesses under oath and take evidence, and take depositions and affidavits.
(3) To issue written interrogatories.
(4) To request the production for inspection and copying of books, records, documents, and physical materials.
(5) To petition the superior courts to compel the appearance and testimony of witnesses, the production of books, records, documents, and physical materials, and the answering of interrogatories.
(h) To bring civil actions pursuant to Section 12965 or 12981 and to prosecute those civil actions before state and federal trial courts.
(i) To issue those publications and those results of investigations and research as in its judgment will tend to promote good will and minimize or eliminate discrimination in employment on the bases enumerated in this part and discrimination in housing because of race, religious creed, color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial status, disability, genetic information, or sexual orientation.
(j) To investigate, approve, certify, decertify, monitor, and enforce nondiscrimination programs proposed by a contractor to be engaged in pursuant to Section 12990.
(k) To render annually to the Governor and to the Legislature a written report of its activities and of its recommendations.
(l) To conduct mediations at any time after a complaint is filed pursuant to Section 12960, 12961, or 12980. The department may end mediation at any time.
(m) The following shall apply with respect to any accusation pending before the former Fair Employment and Housing Commission on or after January 1, 2013:
(1) If an accusation issued under former Section 12965 includes a prayer either for damages for emotional injuries as a component of actual damages, or for administrative fines, or both, or if an accusation is amended for the purpose of adding a prayer either for damages for emotional injuries as a component of actual damages, or for administrative fines, or both, with the consent of the party accused of engaging in unlawful practices, the department may withdraw an accusation and bring a civil action in superior court.
(2) If an accusation was issued under former Section 12981, with the consent of the aggrieved party filing the complaint an aggrieved person on whose behalf a complaint is filed, or the party accused of engaging in unlawful practices, the department may withdraw the accusation and bring a civil action in superior court.
(3) Where removal to court is not feasible, the department shall retain the services of the Office of Administrative Hearings to adjudicate the administrative action pursuant to Sections 11370.3 and 11502.
(n) On any Section 1094.5 Code of Civil Procedure challenge to a decision of the former Fair Employment and Housing Commission pending on or after January 1, 2013, the director or his or her designee shall consult with the Attorney General regarding the defense of that writ petition.
SEC. 3.
Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 12930 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and SB 1442. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, (2) each bill amends Section 12930 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1442, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.
r1 score is: 
0.1809954751131221
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires a city or county that determines that a project, as defined, is subject to the California Environmental Quality Act to identify any public water system that may supply water for the project and to request those public water systems to prepare a specified water supply assessment. If no public water system is identified, the city or county is required to prepare the water supply assessment.
Existing law defines “project” for purposes of these provisions as, among other things, a project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater than, the amount of water required by a 500 dwelling unit project. For a public water system that has fewer than 5,000 service connections, existing law defines “project” as development that would account for a specified increase in the number of service connections. Existing law, until January 1, 2017, exempts from the definition of “project” a proposed photovoltaic or wind energy generation facility that would demand no more than 75 acre-feet of water annually.
This bill would, until January 1, 2018, exempt the above-described proposed photovoltaic or wind energy generation facilities from the definition of “project.” The bill would thereby extend the duties on local agencies with respect to determining whether a project is subject to the water supply assessment requirements, thereby imposing a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.
produced summary is: 
Existing law provides for the design and construction of new public water systems. Existing law requires a public water system to include a treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant, a water-treatment plant
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 10912 of the Water Code, as amended by Section 1 of Chapter 588 of the Statutes of 2011, is amended to read:
10912.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) “Project” means any of the following:
(1) A proposed residential development of more than 500 dwelling units.
(2) A proposed shopping center or business establishment employing more than 1,000 persons or having more than 500,000 square feet of floor space.
(3) A proposed commercial office building employing more than 1,000 persons or having more than 250,000 square feet of floor space.
(4) A proposed hotel or motel, or both, having more than 500 rooms.
(5) (A) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B), a proposed industrial, manufacturing, or processing plant, or industrial park planned to house more than 1,000 persons, occupying more than 40 acres of land, or having more than 650,000 square feet of floor area.
(B) A proposed photovoltaic or wind energy generation facility approved on or after October 8, 2011, is not a project if the facility would demand no more than 75 acre-feet of water annually.
(6) A mixed-use project that includes one or more of the projects specified in this subdivision.
(7) A project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater than, the amount of water required by a 500 dwelling unit project.
(b) If a public water system has fewer than 5,000 service connections, then “project” means any proposed residential, business, commercial, hotel or motel, or industrial development that would account for an increase of 10 percent or more in the number of the public water system’s existing service connections, or a mixed-use project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater than, the amount of water required by residential development that would represent an increase of 10 percent or more in the number of the public water system’s existing service connections.
(c) “Public water system” means a system for the provision of piped water to the public for human consumption that has 3,000 or more service connections. A public water system includes all of the following:
(1) Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facility under control of the operator of the system that is used primarily in connection with the system.
(2) Any collection or pretreatment storage facility not under the control of the operator that is used primarily in connection with the system.
(3) Any person who treats water on behalf of one or more public water systems for the purpose of rendering it safe for human consumption.
(d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2018, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2018, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 2.
Section 10912 of the Water Code, as added by Section 2 of Chapter 588 of the Statutes of 2011, is amended to read:
10912.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) “Project” means any of the following:
(1) A proposed residential development of more than 500 dwelling units.
(2) A proposed shopping center or business establishment employing more than 1,000 persons or having more than 500,000 square feet of floor space.
(3) A proposed commercial office building employing more than 1,000 persons or having more than 250,000 square feet of floor space.
(4) A proposed hotel or motel, or both, having more than 500 rooms.
(5) A proposed industrial, manufacturing, or processing plant, or industrial park planned to house more than 1,000 persons, occupying more than 40 acres of land, or having more than 650,000 square feet of floor area.
(6) A mixed-use project that includes one or more of the projects specified in this subdivision.
(7) A project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater than, the amount of water required by a 500 dwelling unit project.
(b) If a public water system has fewer than 5,000 service connections, then “project” means any proposed residential, business, commercial, hotel or motel, or industrial development that would account for an increase of 10 percent or more in the number of the public water system’s existing service connections, or a mixed-use project that would demand an amount of water equivalent to, or greater than, the amount of water required by residential development that would represent an increase of 10 percent or more in the number of the public water system’s existing service connections.
(c) “Public water system” means a system for the provision of piped water to the public for human consumption that has 3,000 or more service connections. A public water system includes all of the following:
(1) Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facility under control of the operator of the system that is used primarily in connection with the system.
(2) Any collection or pretreatment storage facility not under the control of the operator that is used primarily in connection with the system.
(3) Any person who treats water on behalf of one or more public water systems for the purpose of rendering it safe for human consumption.
(d) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2018.
SEC. 3.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
SEC. 4.
This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:
In order to encourage the development of photovoltaic and wind generation facilities to meet the state’s renewable portfolio standard and greenhouse gas emission reduction goals, it is necessary for this act to take effect immediately.
r1 score is: 
0.1506276150627615
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires an employer to provide his or her employee an accurate itemized statement in writing containing specified information, either semimonthly or at the time the employer pays the employee his or her wages. That specified information includes showing total hours worked by the employee, unless the employee’s compensation is solely based on a salary and the employee is exempt from payment of overtime under a specified statute or any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
This bill would additionally exempt from that requirement for information on total work hours an employee exempt from payment of minimum wage and overtime under specified statutes or any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 226 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
226.
(a) An employer, semimonthly or at the time of each payment of wages, shall furnish to his or her employee, either as a detachable part of the check, draft, or voucher paying the employee’s wages, or separately if wages are paid by personal check or cash, an accurate itemized statement in writing showing (1) gross wages earned, (2) total hours worked by the employee, except as provided in subdivision (j), (3) the number of piece-rate units earned and any applicable piece rate if the employee is paid on a piece-rate basis, (4) all deductions, provided that all deductions made on written orders of the employee may be aggregated and shown as one item, (5) net wages earned, (6) the inclusive dates of the period for which the employee is paid, (7) the name of the employee and only the last four digits of his or her social security number or an employee identification number other than a social security number, (8) the name and address of the legal entity that is the employer and, if the employer is a farm labor contractor, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1682, the name and address of the legal entity that secured the services of the employer, and (9) all applicable hourly rates in effect during the pay period and the corresponding number of hours worked at each hourly rate by the employee and, beginning July 1, 2013, if the employer is a temporary services employer as defined in Section 201.3, the rate of pay and the total hours worked for each temporary services assignment. The deductions made from payment of wages shall be recorded in ink or other indelible form, properly dated, showing the month, day, and year, and a copy of the statement and the record of the deductions shall be kept on file by the employer for at least three years at the place of employment or at a central location within the State of California. For purposes of this subdivision, “copy” includes a duplicate of the itemized statement provided to an employee or a computer-generated record that accurately shows all of the information required by this subdivision.
(b) An employer that is required by this code or any regulation adopted pursuant to this code to keep the information required by subdivision (a) shall afford current and former employees the right to inspect or copy records pertaining to their employment, upon reasonable request to the employer. The employer may take reasonable steps to ensure the identity of a current or former employee. If the employer provides copies of the records, the actual cost of reproduction may be charged to the current or former employee.
(c) An employer who receives a written or oral request to inspect or copy records pursuant to subdivision (b) pertaining to a current or former employee shall comply with the request as soon as practicable, but no later than 21 calendar days from the date of the request. A violation of this subdivision is an infraction. Impossibility of performance, not caused by or a result of a violation of law, shall be an affirmative defense for an employer in any action alleging a violation of this subdivision. An employer may designate the person to whom a request under this subdivision will be made.
(d) This section does not apply to any employer of any person employed by the owner or occupant of a residential dwelling whose duties are incidental to the ownership, maintenance, or use of the dwelling, including the care and supervision of children, or whose duties are personal and not in the course of the trade, business, profession, or occupation of the owner or occupant.
(e) (1) An employee suffering injury as a result of a knowing and intentional failure by an employer to comply with subdivision (a) is entitled to recover the greater of all actual damages or fifty dollars ($50) for the initial pay period in which a violation occurs and one hundred dollars ($100) per employee for each violation in a subsequent pay period, not to exceed an aggregate penalty of four thousand dollars ($4,000), and is entitled to an award of costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
(2) (A) An employee is deemed to suffer injury for purposes of this subdivision if the employer fails to provide a wage statement.
(B) An employee is deemed to suffer injury for purposes of this subdivision if the employer fails to provide accurate and complete information as required by any one or more of items (1) to (9), inclusive, of subdivision (a) and the employee cannot promptly and easily determine from the wage statement alone one or more of the following:
(i) The amount of the gross wages or net wages paid to the employee during the pay period or any of the other information required to be provided on the itemized wage statement pursuant to items (2) to (4), inclusive, (6), and (9) of subdivision (a).
(ii) Which deductions the employer made from gross wages to determine the net wages paid to the employee during the pay period. Nothing in this subdivision alters the ability of the employer to aggregate deductions consistent with the requirements of item (4) of subdivision (a).
(iii) The name and address of the employer and, if the employer is a farm labor contractor, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1682, the name and address of the legal entity that secured the services of the employer during the pay period.
(iv) The name of the employee and only the last four digits of his or her social security number or an employee identification number other than a social security number.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, “promptly and easily determine” means a reasonable person would be able to readily ascertain the information without reference to other documents or information.
(3) For purposes of this subdivision, a “knowing and intentional failure” does not include an isolated and unintentional payroll error due to a clerical or inadvertent mistake. In reviewing for compliance with this section, the factfinder may consider as a relevant factor whether the employer, prior to an alleged violation, has adopted and is in compliance with a set of policies, procedures, and practices that fully comply with this section.
(f) A failure by an employer to permit a current or former employee to inspect or copy records within the time set forth in subdivision (c) entitles the current or former employee or the Labor Commissioner to recover a seven-hundred-fifty-dollar ($750) penalty from the employer.
(g) The listing by an employer of the name and address of the legal entity that secured the services of the employer in the itemized statement required by subdivision (a) shall not create any liability on the part of that legal entity.
(h) An employee may also bring an action for injunctive relief to ensure compliance with this section, and is entitled to an award of costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
(i) This section does not apply to the state, to any city, county, city and county, district, or to any other governmental entity, except that if the state or a city, county, city and county, district, or other governmental entity furnishes its employees with a check, draft, or voucher paying the employee’s wages, the state or a city, county, city and county, district, or other governmental entity shall use no more than the last four digits of the employee’s social security number or shall use an employee identification number other than the social security number on the itemized statement provided with the check, draft, or voucher.
(j) An itemized wage statement furnished by an employer pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not be required to show total hours worked by the employee if any of the following apply:
(1) The employee’s compensation is solely based on salary and the employee is exempt from payment of overtime under subdivision (a) of Section 515 or any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
(2) The employee is exempt from the payment of minimum wage and overtime under any of the following:
(A) The exemption for persons employed in an executive, administrative, or professional capacity provided in any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
(B) The exemption for outside salespersons provided in any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
(C) The overtime exemption for computer software professionals paid on a salaried basis provided in Section 515.5.
(D) The exemption for individuals who are the parent, spouse, child, or legally adopted child of the employer provided in any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
(E) The exemption for participants, director, and staff of a live-in alternative to incarceration rehabilitation program with special focus on substance abusers provided in Section 8002 of the Penal Code.
(F) The exemption for any crew member employed on a commercial passenger fishing boat licensed pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 7920) of Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 6 of the Fish and Game Code provided in any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
(G) The exemption for any individual participating in a national service program provided in any applicable order of the Industrial Welfare Commission.
r1 score is: 
0.2272727272727272
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires the Instructional Quality Commission, on or before July 31, 2019, to consider developing and recommending to the State Board of Education computer science content standards for kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, pursuant to recommendations developed by a group of computer science experts convened by the Superintendent of Public Instruction in consultation with the state board.
This bill would require the Superintendent to convene, on or before September 1, 2017, a computer science strategic implementation advisory panel composed of 23 members, as specified, to develop and submit recommendations for a computer science strategic implementation plan to the State Department of Education, the state board, and the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018. The bill would require the department and the state board to consider the advisory panel’s recommendations; the department to develop, and the state board to adopt, a computer science strategic implementation plan on or before January 1, 2019; and the department to submit the plan adopted by the state board to the Legislature on or before January 1, 2019. The bill would require the Superintendent to appoint a statewide computer science liaison to serve the advisory panel, as provided. The bill would authorize the advisory panel, if state or federal funds are not available or sufficient for purposes of these provisions, to evaluate the process and ability to accept grants and receive donations and other financial support from public or private sources for purposes of convening the advisory panel, preparing the computer science strategic implementation plan, and ensuring that the computer science strategic implementation plan adopted by the state board is implemented. The bill’s provisions would be repealed on January 1, 2021.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Legislature finds that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(1) Computer science education is not only about access to computers. It is about innovation and development of technology. Computer science education builds pupils’ computational and critical thinking skills, which enables them to create, and not simply use, the next generation of technological tools. This fundamental knowledge is needed to prepare pupils for the 21st century regardless of their ultimate field of study or occupation.
(2) Computer science drives job creation and innovation throughout our state’s economy. Providing access to computer science education is a critical step for ensuring that California remains competitive in the global economy and strengthens its cybersecurity. Last year, there were over 600,000 technology jobs open across the United States, and, by 2018, 51 percent of all science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) jobs are projected to be in computer science-related fields. In California, there are currently 86,436 open computing jobs, which is four times the average demand rate in California.
(3) Computing occupations make up two-thirds of all projected new jobs in STEM fields, making computer science one of the most in-demand college degrees. However, California only had 3,525 computer science graduates in 2014 with only 15 percent female graduates.
(4) There are fewer advanced placement (AP) examinations taken in computer science than in any other STEM subject area. Of the high school pupils in California who took the AP computer science examination in 2015, only 26 percent were female, only 973 were Latino, and only 148 were African American. Only 242 schools in California, or 16 percent of California schools with AP programs, offered the AP computer science course in the 2013–14 school year.
(5) President Obama’s Computer Science for All initiative builds on the momentum at the state and local level. The President’s upcoming budget proposes funding for the United States Department of Education, available over three years, for states to increase access to computer science education in elementary and secondary education classrooms. Under the program, states would submit comprehensive five-year “Computer Science for All” plans in order to be eligible for federal funding, and every state with a well-designed strategy would receive funds. In addition to state-level grants, the budget will also dedicate funds for competitive grants specifically for leading districts to execute ambitious computer science education expansion efforts for all pupils, including traditionally underrepresented pupils, with those efforts to serve as models for national replication.
(6) However, access to computer science education for all pupils is still a challenge, especially for underrepresented communities. Only one out of four K–12 schools teaches any computer science, leaving 75 percent of pupils today without the opportunity to develop skills that could help them thrive in the future.
(7) Exposure to computer science at a young age has the potential to address the diversity gap in computer science fields. Girls who take AP computer science in high school are 10 times more likely to major in computer science in college. African American and Latino pupils who take this course in high school are over seven times more likely to major in this field.
(8) A Google-Gallup survey found that nine out of 10 parents say they want computer science taught in their schools, and the majority of parents and teachers believe it should be required learning for 21st century pupils.
(9) Computer science has often been confused with broader technology education in schools. California should adopt distinct standards for computer science focused on both the creation and use of software and computing technologies at all levels of K–12 education.
(b) It is the intent of the Legislature that all pupils in kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, have access to computer science education, with a strong focus on pupils underrepresented in computer science, including girls, low-income and underserved school districts, and rural and urban school districts.
(c) It is the intent of the Legislature that the only predetermined outcome be to increase access to computer science in California schools and to account for disparate views as recommendations are provided.
SEC. 2.
Chapter 19 (commencing with Section 53310) is added to Part 28 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Education Code, to read:
CHAPTER  19. Computer Science Strategic Implementation Plan
53310.
(a) On or before September 1, 2017, the Superintendent shall convene a computer science strategic implementation advisory panel to develop recommendations for a computer science strategic implementation plan. The advisory panel shall hold public meetings, post the location and time of the meetings, and post agendas online. Members of the advisory panel shall possess expertise in computer science.
(b) The advisory panel shall consist of, but not necessarily be limited to, the following members:
(1) The Superintendent or his or her designee, who shall serve as cochair of the advisory panel.
(2) A representative of the Governor, who shall serve as cochair of the advisory panel.
(3) A representative designated by the Senate Committee on Rules.
(4) A representative designated by the Speaker of the Assembly.
(5) (A) Six K–12 teacher representatives, designated by the Superintendent.
(B) It is the intent of the Legislature that these representatives include two elementary school teachers, two middle school teachers, and two high school teachers who are all currently teaching.
(C) It is further the intent of the Legislature that these representatives include one teacher from a large urban school district and one from a rural school district.
(6) A representative representing the Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
(7) A credentialed teacher representing the Computer Science Teachers Association.
(8) A representative of the private sector technology industry, designated by the Superintendent.
(9) A faculty member from the University of California.
(10) A faculty member from the California State University.
(11) A faculty member from the California Community Colleges.
(12) A faculty member from a private postsecondary educational institution, designated by the Superintendent.
(13) A credentialed teacher from the Instructional Quality Commission.
(14) A representative from an equity-focused organization knowledgeable of computer science/STEM education programs, designated by the Superintendent.
(15) A representative from a parent organization, designated by the Superintendent.
(16) A representative representing school administrators and superintendents, designated by the Superintendent.
(17) A pupil enrolled in a public school, designated by the Superintendent.
(18) A representative from a county office of education, designated by the Superintendent.
(c) Administrators from the University of California, the California State University, and the California Community Colleges may serve as advisers to the advisory panel to provide input on the computer science strategic implementation plan.
53311.
(a) On or before July 1, 2018, the computer science strategic implementation advisory panel shall submit recommendations for a computer science strategic implementation plan to the department, the state board, and the Legislature that includes, at a minimum, recommendations on all of the following:
(1) Broadening the pool of teachers to teach computer science. These recommendations may provide, among other things, for the following:
(A) Providing training and professional development for education in computer science pursuant to Section 60605.4.
(B) Creating a teacher certification pathway in computer science.
(C) Expanding scholarship eligibility and loan forgiveness programs for computer science teachers in low-income and underserved school districts and rural and urban school districts.
(2) Defining computer science education principles that meet the needs of pupils in kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive.
(3) Ensuring that all pupils have access to quality computer science courses. These recommendations may provide, among other things, for the following:
(A) Scaling up computer science education coursework so that all high schools teach at least one computer science course.
(B) Providing access to computer science in both college and career pathways.
(C) Ensuring school districts have adequate broadband connectivity and infrastructure and access to hardware and software. This may include, but is not limited to, the development of grant programs that prioritize high-need school districts.
(D) Removing local policy and regulatory barriers that local educational agencies face when implementing computer science education.
(E) Increasing the participation of pupils traditionally underrepresented in computer science education.
(b) The recommendations shall be submitted to the Legislature in conformance with Section 9795 of the Government Code.
(c) Upon completion of the recommendations for a computer science strategic implementation plan, the computer science strategic implementation advisory panel established pursuant to Section 53310 shall cease to exist.
53312.
(a) The Superintendent shall appoint a statewide computer science liaison within the department to serve the computer science strategic implementation advisory panel, including, but not limited to, in the following actions:
(1) Coordinating the efforts of the advisory panel by writing up the recommendations of the advisory panel members and disseminating them to all stakeholders.
(2) Soliciting input and public comments.
(3) Preparing the necessary legislative reports to share the advisory panel’s recommendations.
(4) Ensuring that the advisory panel’s recommendations adopted by the state board are implemented.
(b) The duration of the liaison’s role shall only be for a limited period of time subsequent to the adoption by the state board of academic content standards in computer science and the curriculum framework for computer science in order to provide technical assistance and support to local educational agencies in commencing implementation of the computer science academic content standards and curriculum framework.
53313.
The department and state board shall consider the recommendations submitted by the computer science strategic implementation advisory panel pursuant to Section 53311. The department shall develop, and the state board shall adopt, a computer science strategic implementation plan on or before January 1, 2019. The department shall submit the plan adopted by the state board to the Legislature in conformance with Section 9795 of the Government Code on or before January 1, 2019.
53314.
If state or federal funds are not available or sufficient for purposes of this chapter, the computer science strategic implementation advisory panel may evaluate the process and ability to accept grants and receive donations and other financial support from public or private sources for purposes of convening the advisory panel, preparing the computer science strategic implementation plan, and ensuring that the computer science strategic implementation plan adopted by the state board is implemented.
53315.
This chapter shall become inoperative on July 31, 2020, and, as of January 1, 2021, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that becomes operative on or before January 1, 2021, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
r1 score is: 
0.1828908554572271
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG^2 tested on CA can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons including, among others, those authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, or a certification for livestock stockpond use.
This bill would restrict the state board’s authorization to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a registration or certification to uses that are year-round.
Existing law requires a person who diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license to install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage, as specified, and with certain exceptions.
This bill would delay those requirements for 2 years.
produced summary is: 
(1)Existing law requires the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, and livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the initial regulations to be adopted as emergency regulations and to be considered by the Office of Administrative Law as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare. This bill would adopt emergency regulations requiring the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, and livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. The initial regulations would require the board to adopt regulations requiring a person who, on or after January 1, 2018, diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license to install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage, as specified. The initial regulations would require the board to consider
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1841 of the Water Code is amended to read:
1841.
(a) The board may adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by either of the following:
(1) Persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use,
if the registered use is year-round,
or certification for livestock stockpond
use.
use, if the certified use is year-round.
(2) Persons required to comply with measurement and reporting regulations pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 5103.
(b) The initial regulations that the board adopts pursuant to this section shall be adopted as emergency regulations in accordance with Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The adoption of the initial regulations is an emergency and shall be considered by the Office of Administrative Law as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare. Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, any emergency regulations adopted under this section shall remain in effect until revised by the board.
(c) The adoption of the initial regulations pursuant to this article is exempt from Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code.
SECTION 1.
Section 1840 of the
Water Code
is amended to read:
1840.
(a)(1)Except as provided in subdivision (b), a person who, on or after January 1, 2018, diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license shall install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage. The measurements shall be made using the best available technologies and best professional practices, as defined in Section 5100, using a device or methods satisfactory to the board, as follows:
(A)A device shall be capable of continuous monitoring of the rate and quantity of water diverted and shall be properly maintained. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence that the device has been installed with the first report submitted after installation of the device. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence demonstrating that the device is functioning properly as part of the reports submitted at five-year intervals after the report documenting installation of the device, or upon request of the board.
(B)In developing regulations pursuant to Section 1841, the board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurement of the total amount diverted and the rate of diversion. The board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurements within an acceptable range of error, including the following:
(i)Electricity records dedicated to a pump and recent pump test.
(ii)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable streamflow rating curve.
(iii)Staff gage calibrated for a flume or weir.
(iv)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable storage capacity curve.
(v)Pressure transducer and acceptable storage capacity curve.
(2)The permittee or licensee shall maintain a record of all diversion monitoring that includes the date, time, and diversion rate at time intervals of one hour or less, and the total amount of water diverted. These records shall be included with reports submitted under the permit or license, as required under subdivision (c), or upon request of the board.
(b)(1)The board may modify the requirements of subdivision (a) upon finding either of the following:
(A)That strict compliance is infeasible, is unreasonably expensive, would unreasonably affect public trust uses, or would result in the waste or unreasonable use of water.
(B)That the need for monitoring and reporting is adequately addressed by other conditions of the permit or license.
(2)The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold of subdivision (a) in a watershed or subwatershed, after considering the diversion reporting threshold in relation to quantity of water within the watershed or subwatershed. The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold to 25 acre-feet or more if it finds that the benefits of the additional information within the watershed or subwatershed are substantially outweighed by the cost of installing measuring devices or employing methods for measurement for diversions at the 10-acre-foot threshold.
(c)At least annually, a person who diverts water under a registration, permit, or license shall report to the board the following information:
(1)The quantity of water diverted by month.
(2)The maximum rate of diversion by months in the preceding calendar year.
(3)The information required by subdivision (a), if applicable.
(d)Compliance with the applicable requirements of this section is a condition of every registration, permit, or license.
r1 score is: 
0.7210526315789473
==================================
target summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law and the Corporation Tax Law allow various credits against the taxes imposed by those laws.
This bill, for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
would allow a credit under those laws to an employer who pays a qualified employee a wage equal to or exceeding the state minimum wage during the taxable year, as provided. The bill would define a qualified employee as an individual with a disability who may be paid a special minimum wage under existing state or federal law. The credit would be allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the hours worked by the qualified employee.
The bill would require the Franchise Tax Board to submit a report containing specified data relating to these credits to the Legislature by June 1, 2022.
This bill would take effect immediately as a tax levy.
produced summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law allows various credits against the taxes imposed by that law, including certain credits that are allowed in modified conformity to credits allowed by federal income tax laws. This bill, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, would allow a credit to a qualified employer, as defined, to a qualified employee who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year. The bill would provide that the credit would be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the credit paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a qualified employer to pass the credit to the qualified employee through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of the Personal Income Tax Law.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 17053.75 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
17053.75.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified employer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 23675 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001). For purposes of this section, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership or “S” Corporation.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the net “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 23675.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 23675 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
23675.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “tax,” as defined by Section 23036, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified taxpayer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 17053.75 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001). For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 17053.75.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 3.
It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to comply with the requirements of Section
41.
41 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
SEC. 4.
This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of Article IV of the
California
Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
r1 score is: 
0.6932515337423313
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires that all persons honorably discharged from the control of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitations, Division of Juvenile Justice, to thereafter be released from all penalties or disabilities resulting from the offense for which they were committed. Existing law separately requires that every person discharged from the control of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice, who has not, during the period of control, been placed in a state prison, to thereafter be released from all penalties and disabilities resulting from the offense or crime for which he or she was committed.
This bill would require all persons honorably discharged from the control of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division or from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court to be released from all penalties or disabilities resulting from the offense for which they were committed. The bill would require that each person honorably discharged from the control of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division, and each person discharged from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court who has not, during the period of control, been placed in a state prison, to thereafter be released from all penalties and disabilities resulting from the offense or crime for which he or she was committed.
produced summary is: 
Existing law provides that a person who is honorably discharged from control of the Youth Authority Board Department of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division, or from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court shall be released from all penalties or disabilities resulting from the offenses for which they were committed, including, but not limited to, any disqualification for employment or occupational license, or both, created by any other provision of law. This bill would provide that a person who is honorably discharged from control of the Youth Authority Board Department of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division, or from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court shall thereafter be released from all penalties or disabilities resulting from the offenses for which they were committed, including, but not limited to, any disqualification for employment or occupational license, or both, created by any other provision of law.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1179 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
1179.
(a)
All persons
Each person
honorably discharged from control of the
Youth Authority Board
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division, or from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court
shall thereafter be released from all penalties or disabilities resulting from the offenses for which they were committed, including, but not limited to, any disqualification for any employment or occupational license, or both, created by any other
provision of
law. However, that
a
person
shall
is
not
be
eligible for appointment as a peace officer employed by any public agency if his or her appointment
would
is
otherwise
be
prohibited by Section 1029 of the Government Code.
(b) Notwithstanding
the provisions of
subdivision (a),
that
a
person may be appointed and employed as a peace officer by the Department of
the Youth Authority
Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice
if (1) at least five years have passed since his or her honorable discharge, and the person has had no misdemeanor or felony convictions except for traffic misdemeanors since he or she was honorably discharged by the board
or the juvenile court
, or (2) the person was employed as a peace officer by the
department
Division of Juvenile Justice
on or before January 1, 1983.
No
A
person who is under the jurisdiction of the
department
Division of Juvenile Justice or county probation department
shall
not
be admitted to an examination for a peace officer position with the
department
Division of Juvenile Justice
unless and until the person has been honorably discharged from the jurisdiction of the
department by the Youth Authority Board.
Division of Juvenile Justice or county probation department pursuant to subdivision (a).
(c)
Upon
In the case of a person discharged from the control of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice by the Board of Parole Hearings, upon
the final discharge or dismissal of
any such
the
person, the
Department of the Youth Authority
department
shall immediately certify the discharge or dismissal in writing, and shall transmit the certificate to the court by which the person was committed. The court shall thereupon dismiss the accusation and the action pending against that person.
SEC. 2.
Section 1772 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
1772.
(a) Subject to subdivision (b), every person honorably discharged from control
of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice
by the
Youth Authority Board
Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division or from the control of the county probation department by the juvenile court
who has not, during the period of control by the
authority
Division of Juvenile Justice or county probation department
, been placed by the
authority
Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division or county probation department
in a state prison shall thereafter be released from all penalties and disabilities resulting from the offense or crime for which he or she was committed, and every person discharged may petition the court which committed him or her, and the court may upon that petition set aside the verdict of guilty and dismiss the accusation or information against the petitioner who shall thereafter be released from all penalties and disabilities resulting from the offense or crime for which he or she was committed, including, but not limited to, any disqualification for any employment or occupational license, or both, created by any other provision of law.
(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a)
, all of the following shall apply
:
(1) A person described by subdivision (a) shall not be eligible for appointment as a peace officer employed by any public agency if his or her appointment would otherwise be prohibited by Section 1029 of the Government Code. However, that person may be appointed and employed as a peace officer by the Department of
the Youth Authority
Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice
if (A) at least five years have passed since his or her honorable discharge, and the person has had no misdemeanor or felony convictions except for traffic misdemeanors since he or she was honorably discharged by the
Youth Authority Board
board or by a juvenile court
, or (B) the person was employed as a peace officer by the
Department of the Youth Authority
Division of Juvenile Justice
on or before January 1, 1983.
No
A
person who is under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Youth Authority
Division of Juvenile Justice or county probation department
shall
not
be admitted to an examination for a peace officer position with the
department
Division of Juvenile Justice
unless and until the person has been honorably discharged from the jurisdiction of the
Youth Authority Board.
Division of Juvenile Justice or county probation department pursuant to subdivision (a).
(2) A person described by subdivision (a) is subject to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 29800) and Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 29900) of Division 9 of Title 4 of Part 6 of the Penal Code.
(3) The conviction of a person described by subdivision (a) for an offense listed in subdivision (b) of Section 707 is admissible in a subsequent criminal, juvenile, or civil proceeding if otherwise admissible, if all the following are true:
(A) The person was 16 years of age or older at the time he or she committed the offense.
(B) The person was found unfit to be dealt with under the juvenile court law pursuant to Section 707 because he or she was alleged to have committed an offense listed in subdivision (b) of Section 707.
(C) The person was tried as an adult and convicted of an offense listed in subdivision (b) of Section 707.
(D) The person was committed to the Department of
the Youth Authority
Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice
for the offense referred to in subparagraph (C).
(4) The conviction of a person described by subdivision (a) may be used to enhance the punishment for a subsequent offense.
(5) The conviction of a person who is 18 years of age or older at the time he or she committed the offense is admissible in a subsequent civil, criminal, or juvenile proceeding, if otherwise admissible pursuant to law.
(c) Every person discharged from control by the
Youth Authority Board
Board of Parole Hearings, Juvenile Division or from the county probation department by the juvenile court
shall be informed of the provisions of this section in writing at the time of discharge.
(d) “Honorably discharged” as used in this section means and includes every person whose discharge is based upon a good record on
parole
supervised release
.
r1 score is: 
0.5955334987593052
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires local educational agencies to actively and systematically seek out all individuals with exceptional needs, from birth to 21 years of age, inclusive, including children not enrolled in public school programs, who reside in a school district or are under the jurisdiction of a special education local plan area or a county office of education.
This bill would require the State Department of Education, on or before July 1, 2018, to develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners, as specified, with the goal of providing guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of those pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils. The bill would require the department to post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site. In developing the manual, the bill would require the department to review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government, and to establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of specified experts and practitioners. As part of implementing these provisions, the bill would require the department, with input from the stakeholder group, to develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual, as specified, but would condition the actual implementation of the plan on an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute. The bill would require the department to submit the plan to the State Board of Education, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018. The bill would state the intent of the Legislature that its provisions be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
produced summary is: 
(1) Existing law establishes a system of public elementary and secondary education in this state, and authorizes local educational agencies throughout the state to provide instruction to pupils. This bill would require the State Department of Education to develop a manual, on or before July 1, 2018, to provide guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners. The bill would establish specific goals and objectives for the manual, including, among other things, to provide guidance, for use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils, and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils. The bill would also require the department to consult with and consult with experts in the fields of early childhood development, special education, and language and literacy development, as specified. The bill would establish a system of public elementary and secondary education in this state, and authorizes local educational agencies throughout the state to provide instruction to pupils.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) There are approximately 1.4 million English learners in California public schools, representing 22 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these English learners are also pupils who qualify for special education services.
(b) There are approximately 734,000 pupils with disabilities in California public schools, representing 12 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these pupils with disabilities are also English learners.
(c) The accurate identification of English learners who qualify for special education services, the classification of pupils with disabilities as English learners, and the determination of appropriate services for these pupils is in the interest of pupils, families, educators, local educational agencies, and the state.
(d) The identification, assessment, support, reclassification, and special education exit of these pupils involve complex and interrelated processes, and educators would benefit from state guidance on how best to identify these pupils.
(e) Educators would also benefit from state guidance about how to support the learning needs of these pupils.
(f) Other states have provided their educators with such guidance through manuals on the topic of English learners and special education. The federal government recommends that states develop guidance for educators on this topic.
(g) California, which enrolls one in every three English learners in the country, and 35 percent of all English learners who receive special education services in the United States, should provide such guidance for its educators in the form of a manual and professional development on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying these pupils.
SEC. 2.
Section 56305 is added to the Education Code, to read:
56305.
(a) On or before July 1, 2018, the department shall develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners.
(b) The goal of the manual shall be to provide guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils.
(c) In developing the manual, the department shall do both of the following:
(1) Review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government.
(2) Establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of experts and practitioners. These individuals shall have expertise or experience in either special education, English learner education, or in both.
(d) The manual shall include all of the following topics:
(1) Guidance for accurately identifying English learners who may have disabilities and accurately classifying pupils with disabilities as English learners, including guidance on avoiding overidentification and underidentification of these pupils for special education services and in different disability categories and in different grade spans.
(2) Information on second language acquisition and progress, including guidance on distinguishing between language acquisition and disabilities.
(3) Examples of prereferral strategies, early interventions, and early intervening strategies specifically addressing the needs of English learners, including examples of early interventions for pupils in preschool and the primary grades who are acquiring foundational language and literacy skills.
(4) Guidance on referral processes.
(5) Guidance on the use of assessments, including the use of multiple measures as well as assessment accommodations for both language and disability, including assessment accommodations in primary languages.
(6) Guidance on the consideration of extrinsic factors, such as vision, hearing, and health, in the identification of pupils.
(7) Guidance on the development of individualized education programs for English learners, including the composition of individualized education program teams.
(8) Guidance on how to support the language and content learning needs of English learners who may have disabilities, including how to do so in the least restrictive environment, as described in Section 56040.1, and in a manner that enables access to the core curriculum.
(9) Guidance regarding placement or continued placement in bilingual programs and on providing services and instruction in primary languages.
(10) Guidance on special education exit and English learner reclassification processes for English learners with disabilities.
(11) Information on the role of culture and acculturation, to the extent it is related to the process of identifying English learners for special education services.
(12) Guidance for working with families, including guidance on meeting the needs of nonnative English speaking parents, guardians, and educational rights holders in special education proceedings.
(13) Examples of any plans or processes used by local educational agencies for continuous evaluation and systemic review and guidance on sharing information between special education and English learner programs within local educational agencies for the purpose of tracking effectiveness, to the extent permitted under state and federal law regarding the privacy of pupil information.
(14) State and federal law, regulations, and guidance related to the rights of English learners and pupils with disabilities.
(e) All guidance in the manual shall be consistent with state and federal law, regulations, and guidance regarding English learners and special education.
(f) The manual shall be written for ease of use by educators. The department is encouraged to incorporate features such as flowcharts, checklists, sample forms, and case examples.
(g) The department shall post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site.
(h) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “English learners” includes pupils who have been classified as English learners and those who may later be classified as English learners.
(2) “Pupils with disabilities” includes pupils who have been or may later be identified as individuals with exceptional needs, as defined in Section 56026, including pupils who have been or may later be identified as having a low incidence disability, as defined in Section 56026.5, or a severe disability, as defined in Section 56030.5, and also includes pupils with disabilities who may be later classified as English learners.
(i) (1) (A) In implementing this section, the department, with input from the stakeholder group, shall develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual. The plan shall address how the state and local educational agencies can collaborate in meeting both of these objectives in a cost-effective manner.
(B) Implementation of the plan developed pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be contingent upon an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute.
(2) The plan shall be submitted to the state board, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018.
(j) It is the intent of the Legislature that this section be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
r1 score is: 
0.6121112929623568
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law makes it the duty of a coroner to inquire into and determine the circumstances, manner, and cause of deaths under prescribed conditions, including deaths under such circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground to suspect that the death was caused by the criminal act of another. Existing law provides for the execution of a certificate of religious belief stating that postmortem anatomical dissection or specified procedures would violate the religious convictions of the person, and, except as specified, prohibits a coroner from performing the procedure. Existing law requires a postmortem examination or autopsy to include certain procedures, including, among others, taking available fingerprints and palm prints and a dental examination including dental charts and dental X-rays, as specified. Existing law authorizes the postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains to include full body X-rays.
This bill, except as specified, would authorize a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency required to perform an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions to use an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, to fulfill specified postmortem examination or autopsy requirements. The bill would prohibit a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions from using an electronic image system to conduct the autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would require a dissection autopsy to be performed to determine the cause and manner of death if the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would allow an autopsy to be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system without regard to the existence of a properly-executed certificate of religious belief.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that a postmortem examination or autopsy performed at the sole and exclusive discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491, an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, may be used to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b), or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520. The bill would prohibit a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491 from using an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would authorize a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 27521 of the Government Code is amended to read:
27521.
(a) A postmortem examination or autopsy conducted at the discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency upon an unidentified body or human remains is subject to this section.
(b) A postmortem examination or autopsy shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following procedures:
(1) Taking of all available fingerprints and palm prints.
(2) A dental examination consisting of dental charts and dental X-rays of the deceased person’s teeth, which may be conducted on the body or human remains by a qualified dentist as determined by the coroner.
(3) The collection of tissue, including a hair sample, or body fluid samples for future DNA testing, if necessary.
(4) Frontal and lateral facial photographs with the scale indicated.
(5) Notation and photographs, with a scale, of significant scars, marks, tattoos, clothing items, or other personal effects found with or near the body.
(6) Notations of observations pertinent to the estimation of the time of death.
(7) Precise documentation of the location of the remains.
(c) The postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains may include full body X-rays.
(d) (1) At the sole and exclusive discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491, an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, may be used to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b) or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520.
(2) Nothing in this subdivision imposes a duty upon any coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing autopsies pursuant to Section 27491 to use an electronic image system to perform autopsies or to acquire the capability to do so.
(3) A coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491 shall not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. If the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law, then a dissection autopsy shall be performed in order to determine the cause and manner of death.
(4) An autopsy may be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system notwithstanding the existence of a certificate of religious belief properly executed in accordance with Section 27491.43.
(e) The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy shall prepare a final report of investigation in a format established by the Department of Justice. The final report shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b).
(f) The body of an unidentified deceased person shall not be cremated or buried until the jaws (maxilla and mandible with teeth), or other bone sample if the jaws are not available, and other tissue samples are retained for future possible use. Unless the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy has determined that the body of the unidentified deceased person has suffered significant deterioration or decomposition, the jaws shall not be removed until immediately before the body is cremated or buried. The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency responsible for a postmortem examination or autopsy shall retain the jaws and other tissue samples for one year after a positive identification is made, and no civil or criminal challenges are pending, or indefinitely.
(g) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and any other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit dental charts and dental X-rays of the unidentified deceased person to the Department of Justice on forms supplied by the Department of Justice within 45 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered.
(h) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit the final report of investigation to the Department of Justice within 180 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered. The final report of investigation shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b), and any anthropology report, fingerprints, photographs, and autopsy report.
r1 score is: 
0.6224489795918366
==================================
target summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law allows various credits against the taxes imposed by that law, including certain credits that are allowed in modified conformity to credits allowed by federal income tax laws. Federal income tax laws allow a refundable earned income tax credit for certain low-income individuals who have earned income from wages, salaries, tips, and other employee compensation plus net earnings from self-employment and who meet certain other requirements. The Personal Income Tax Law, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2015, in modified conformity with federal income tax laws, allows an earned income credit against personal income tax, which is only for earned income from wages, salaries, tips, and other employee compensation, and a payment in excess of that credit amount, to an eligible individual that is equal to that portion of the earned income tax credit allowed by federal law as determined by the earned income tax credit adjustment factor as set forth in the annual Budget Act.
This bill would, for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016, expand the earned income credit allowed by the Personal Income Tax Law by providing additional conformity with federal income tax law to include specified net earnings from self-employment in earned income thus allowing an earned income credit for taxpayers for those earnings.
Existing law establishes the continuously appropriated Tax Relief and Refund Account and provides that payments required to be made to taxpayers or other persons from the Personal Income Tax Fund are to be paid from that account, including any amount allowable as an earned income credit in excess of any tax liabilities.
By authorizing new payments from that account for additional amounts in excess of personal income tax liabilities, this bill would make an appropriation.
Existing law imposes an annual minimum franchise tax, except as provided, on every corporation incorporated in this state, qualified to transact intrastate business in this state, or doing business in this state. Existing law, until taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, exempts a corporation and a limited liability company that are small businesses solely owned by a deployed member of the United States Armed Forces, as specified, from paying the minimum franchise tax, or the annual tax, for the privilege of doing business in this state if the corporation or limited liability company ceases operation or operates at a loss, as defined.
The bill would reduce the annual minimum franchise tax to $150 for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, for specified corporations. This bill would also extend the exemption for corporations and limited liability companies solely owned by deployed members of the United States Armed Forces until January 1, 2020.
This bill would take effect immediately as a tax levy.
produced summary is: 
The Personal Income Tax Law allows various credits against the taxes imposed by that law, including certain credits that are allowed in modified conformity to credits allowed by federal income tax laws. Federal income tax laws allow a refundable earned income credit for certain low-income individuals who meet certain other requirements. This bill, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2015, in modified conformity with federal income tax laws, would allow an earned income credit against personal income tax, in an amount equal to an amount equal to an amount determined in accordance with the earned income credit adjustment factor for the taxable year, computed by the earned income credit adjustment factor as set forth in the annual Budget Act. Existing law requires any bill authorizing a new personal income tax credit to contain, among other things, specific goals, purposes, and objectives that the tax credit will achieve, detailed performance indicators, and data collection requirements, as provided. To measure whether the earned income credit achieves its intended purpose, this bill would require the Franchise Tax Board to prepare a specified written report and to provide that report to specified legislative committees. Existing law establishes the continuously appropriated Tax Relief and Refund Account, and provides that payments required to be made to taxpayers or other persons from that account are to be paid from that account. This bill would provide that
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 17052 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:
17052.
(a) (1) For each taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2015, there shall be allowed against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, an earned income tax credit in an amount equal to an amount determined in accordance with Section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to earned income, as applicable for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(2) (A) The amount of the credit determined under Section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to earned income, as modified by this section, shall be multiplied by the earned income tax credit adjustment factor for the taxable year.
(B) Unless otherwise specified in the annual Budget Act, the earned income tax credit adjustment factor for a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2015, shall be 0 percent.
(C) The earned income tax credit authorized by this section shall only be operative for taxable years for which resources are authorized in the annual Budget Act for the Franchise Tax Board to oversee and audit returns associated with the credit.
(b) (1) In lieu of the table prescribed in Section 32(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to percentages, the credit percentage and the phaseout percentage shall be determined as follows:
In the case of an eligible individual with:
The credit percentage is:
The phaseout percentage is:
No qualifying children
7.65%
7.65%
1 qualifying child
34%
34%
2 or more qualifying children
40%
40%
(2) (A) In lieu of the table prescribed in Section 32(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, the earned income amount and the phaseout amount shall be determined as follows:
In the case of an eligible individual with:
The earned income amount is:
The phaseout amount is:
No qualifying children
$3,290
$3,290
1 qualifying child
$4,940
$4,940
2 or more qualifying children
$6,935
$6,935
(B) Section 32(b)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to joint returns, shall not apply.
(3) Section 32(b)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increased percentage for three or more qualifying children, is modified by substituting “the credit percentage and phaseout percentage is 45 percent” for “the credit percentage is 45 percent.”
(c) (1) Section 32(c)(1)(A)(ii)(I) of the Internal Revenue Code is modified by substituting “this state” for “the United States.”
(2) Section 32(c)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code is modified as follows:
(A) Section 32(c)(2)(A)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code is modified by deleting “plus” and inserting in lieu thereof the following: “and only if such amounts are subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance
Code.”
Code, plus
”
(B)
In lieu of
Section 32(c)(2)(A)(ii) of the Internal Revenue
Code shall not apply.
Code, substitute the following: “the amount of the taxpayer’s reportable gross income from self-employment for the taxable year.” For purposes of this section, “reportable gross income from self-employment” means gross income derived by an individual from any trade or business carried on by such individual that is properly reported to the Secretary on an information return for the taxable year and reported on a written statement furnished to that individual as required pursuant to Section 6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to information at source, or Section 6041A of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to returns regarding payments of remuneration for services and direct sales.
(3) Section 32(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to place of abode, is modified by substituting “this state” for “the United States.”
(d) Section 32(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code is modified by substituting “$3,400” for “$2,200.”
(e) In lieu of Section 32(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to inflation adjustments, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, the amounts specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) and in subdivision (d) shall be recomputed annually in the same manner as the recomputation of income tax brackets under subdivision (h) of Section 17041.
(f) If the amount allowable as a credit under this section exceeds the tax liability computed under this part for the taxable year, the excess shall be credited against other amounts due, if any, and the balance, if any, shall be paid from the Tax Relief and Refund Account and refunded to the taxpayer.
(g) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(h) Notwithstanding any other law, amounts refunded pursuant to this section shall be treated in the same manner as the federal earned income refund for the purpose of determining eligibility to receive benefits under Division 9 (commencing with Section 10000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code or amounts of those benefits.
(i) (1) For the purpose of implementing the credit allowed by this section for the 2015 taxable year, the Franchise Tax Board shall be exempt from the following:
(A) Special Project Report requirements under State Administrative Manual Sections 4819.36, 4945, and 4945.2.
(B) Special Project Report requirements under Statewide Information Management Manual Section 30.
(C) Section 11.00 of the 2015 Budget Act.
(D) Sections 12101, 12101.5, 12102, and 12102.1 of the Public Contract Code.
(2) The Franchise Tax Board shall formally incorporate the scope, costs, and schedule changes associated with the implementation of the credit allowed by this section in its next anticipated Special Project Report for its Enterprise Data to Revenue Project.
(j) (1) In accordance with Section 41 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the purpose of the California Earned Income Tax Credit is to reduce poverty among California’s poorest working families and individuals. To measure whether the credit achieves its intended purpose, the Franchise Tax Board shall annually prepare a written report on the following:
(A) The number of tax returns claiming the credit.
(B) The number of individuals represented on tax returns claiming the credit.
(C) The average credit amount on tax returns claiming the credit.
(D) The distribution of credits by number of dependents and income ranges. The income ranges shall encompass the phase-in and phaseout ranges of the credit.
(E) Using data from tax returns claiming the credit, including an estimate of the federal tax credit determined under Section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code, an estimate of the number of families who are lifted out of deep poverty by the credit and an estimate of the number of families who are lifted out of deep poverty by the combination of the credit and the federal tax credit. For the purposes of this subdivision, a family is in “deep poverty” if the income of the family is less than 50 percent of the federal poverty threshold.
(2) The Franchise Tax Board shall provide the written report to the Senate Committee on Budget and Fiscal Review, the Assembly Committee on Budget, the Senate and Assembly Committees on Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Governance and Finance, the Assembly Committees on Revenue and Taxation, and the Senate and Assembly Committees on Human Services.
(k) The tax credit allowed by this section shall be known as the California Earned Income Tax Credit.
(l) The amendments made to this section by the act adding this subdivision shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
SECTION 1.
Section 23153 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
23153.
(a)Every corporation described in subdivision (b) shall be subject to the minimum franchise tax specified in subdivision (d) from the earlier of the date of incorporation, qualification, or commencing to do business within this state, until the effective date of dissolution or withdrawal as provided in Section 23331 or, if later, the date the corporation ceases to do business within the limits of this state.
(b)Unless expressly exempted by this part or the California Constitution, subdivision (a) shall apply to each of the following:
(1)Every corporation that is incorporated under the laws of this state.
(2)Every corporation that is qualified to transact intrastate business in this state pursuant to Chapter 21 (commencing with Section 2100) of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code.
(3)Every corporation that is doing business in this state.
(c)The following entities are not subject to the minimum franchise tax specified in this section:
(1)Credit unions.
(2)Nonprofit cooperative associations organized pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 54001) of Division 20 of the Food and Agricultural Code that have been issued the certificate of the board of supervisors prepared pursuant to Section 54042 of the Food and Agricultural Code. The association shall be exempt from the minimum franchise tax for five consecutive taxable years, commencing with the first taxable year for which the certificate is issued pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 54042 of the Food and Agricultural Code. This paragraph only applies to nonprofit cooperative associations organized on or after January 1, 1994.
(d)(1)Except as provided in paragraph (2), paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) of Section 23151, paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) of Section 23181, and paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 23183, corporations subject to the minimum franchise tax shall pay annually to the state a minimum franchise tax of eight hundred dollars ($800).
(2)The minimum franchise tax shall be twenty-five dollars ($25) for each of the following:
(A)A corporation formed under the laws of this state whose principal business when formed was gold mining, which is inactive and has not done business within the limits of the state since 1950.
(B)A corporation formed under the laws of this state whose principal business when formed was quicksilver mining, which is inactive and has not done business within the limits of the state since 1971, or has been inactive for a period of 24 consecutive months or more.
(3)For purposes of paragraph (2), a corporation shall not be considered to have done business if it engages in business other than mining.
(e)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1999, and before January 1, 2000, every “qualified new corporation” shall pay annually to the state a minimum franchise tax of five hundred dollars ($500) for the second taxable year. This subdivision shall apply to any corporation that is a qualified new corporation and is incorporated on or after January 1, 1999, and before January 1, 2000.
(1)The determination of the gross receipts of a corporation, for purposes of this subdivision, shall be made by including the gross receipts of each member of the commonly controlled group, as defined in Section 25105, of which the corporation is a member.
(2)“Gross receipts, less returns and allowances reportable to this state,” means the sum of the gross receipts from the production of business income, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 25120, and the gross receipts from the production of nonbusiness income, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 25120.
(3)“Qualified new corporation” means a corporation that is incorporated under the laws of this state or has qualified to transact intrastate business in this state, that begins business operations at or after the time of its incorporation and that reasonably estimates that it will have gross receipts, less returns and allowances, reportable to this state for the taxable year of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or less. “Qualified new corporation” does not include any corporation that began business operations as a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or any other form of business entity prior to its incorporation. This subdivision shall not apply to any corporation that reorganizes solely for the purpose of reducing its minimum franchise tax.
(4)This subdivision shall not apply to limited partnerships, as defined in Section 17935, limited liability companies, as defined in Section 17941, limited liability partnerships, as described in Section 17948, charitable organizations, as described in Section 23703, regulated investment companies, as defined in Section 851 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition of regulated investment company, real estate investment trusts, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition of real estate investment trust, real estate mortgage investment conduits, as defined in Section 860D of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to REMIC defined, qualified Subchapter S subsidiaries, as defined in Section 1361(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to treatment of wholly owned subsidiaries, or to the formation of any subsidiary corporation, to the extent applicable.
(5)For any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1999, and before January 1, 2000, if a corporation has qualified to pay five hundred dollars ($500) for the second taxable year under this subdivision, but in its second taxable year, the corporation’s gross receipts, as determined under paragraphs (1) and (2), exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), an additional tax in the amount equal to three hundred dollars ($300) for the second taxable year shall be due and payable by the corporation on the due date of its return, without regard to extension, for that year.
(f)(1)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), every corporation that incorporates or qualifies to do business in this state on or after January 1, 2000, shall not be subject to the minimum franchise tax for its first taxable year.
(2)This subdivision shall not apply to limited partnerships, as defined in Section 17935, limited liability companies, as defined in Section 17941, limited liability partnerships, as described in Section 17948, charitable organizations, as described in Section 23703, regulated investment companies, as defined in Section 851 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition of regulated investment company, real estate investment trusts, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition of real estate investment trust, real estate mortgage investment conduits, as defined in Section 860D of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to REMIC defined, and qualified Subchapter S subsidiaries, as defined in Section 1361(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to treatment of wholly owned subsidiaries, to the extent applicable.
(3)This subdivision shall not apply to any corporation that reorganizes solely for the purpose of avoiding payment of its minimum franchise tax.
(g)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a domestic corporation, as defined in Section 167 of the Corporations Code, that files a certificate of dissolution in the office of the Secretary of State pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 1905 of the Corporations Code, prior to its amendment by the act amending this subdivision, and that does not thereafter do business shall not be subject to the minimum franchise tax for taxable years beginning on or after the date of that filing.
(h)The minimum franchise tax imposed by paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) shall not be increased by the Legislature by more than 10 percent during any calendar year.
(i)(1)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a corporation that is a small business solely owned by a deployed member of the United States Armed Forces shall not be subject to the minimum franchise tax for any taxable year the owner is deployed and the corporation operates at a loss or ceases operation.
(2)The Franchise Tax Board may promulgate regulations as necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subdivision, including a definition for “ceases operation.”
(3)For the purposes of this subdivision, all of the following definitions apply:
(A)“Deployed” means being called to active duty or active service during a period when a Presidential Executive order specifies that the United States is engaged in combat or homeland defense. “Deployed” does not include either of the following:
(i)Temporary duty for the sole purpose of training or processing.
(ii)A permanent change of station.
(B)“Operates at a loss” means negative net income as defined in Section 24341.
(C)“Small business” means a corporation with total income from all sources derived from, or attributable, to the state of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or less.
(4)This subdivision shall become inoperative for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2020.
(j)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, corporations subject to the minimum franchise tax shall pay annually to the state a minimum franchise tax of one hundred fifty dollars ($150).
(2)This subdivision shall not apply to limited partnerships, as defined in Section 17935, limited liability companies, as defined in Section 17941, limited liability partnerships, as described in Section 17948, charitable organizations, as described in Section 23703, regulated investment companies, as defined in Section 851 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition of regulated investment company, real estate investment trusts, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to the definition of real estate investment trust, and real estate mortgage investment conduits, as defined in Section 860D of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to REMIC defined.
SEC. 2.
This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
r1 score is: 
0.560344827586207
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law authorizes the Department of Transportation, upon adoption of an ordinance or resolution by the City of Carson, the City of Long Beach, and the City of Los Angeles, to issue a special permit to the operator of a vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment, permitting the operation and movement of the vehicle, combination, or equipment, and its load, on specified routes in those cities if the vehicle, combination, or equipment meets specified criteria. Under existing law, those criteria include that the vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment is used to transport intermodal cargo containers that are moving in international commerce, and that the maximum gross weight of the vehicles and loads not exceed 95,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
This bill would require
the above-mentioned ordinance or resolution to conform with the weight limits determined by the Department of Transportation.
the City of Carson, the City of Long Beach, and the City of Los Angeles to use and enforce the axle and gross vehicle weight limits used by the Department of Transportation for a permitted vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment operating or moving on the above-described routes by individual, and not combined, axle group calculations.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that the bill would provide that the Department of Transportation, upon adoption of an ordinance or resolution that is in conformance with the provisions of this bill by the City of Carson, the City of Long Beach, and the City of Los Angeles, covering designated routes, may issue a special permit to the operator of a vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment, permitting the operation and movement of the vehicle, combination, or equipment, and its load, on the 3.66-mile portion of State Route 47 and State Route 103 known as the Terminal Island Freeway, between Willow Street in the City of Long Beach and Terminal Island in the City of Long Beach and the City of Los Angeles, and on the 2.4-mile portion of State Highway 1 between Sanford Avenue in the City of Los Angeles and Harbor Avenue in the City of Long Beach, if the vehicle, combination, or equipment meets all of the following criteria.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) Heavy container corridors connect the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to warehouses and distribution centers throughout the port area.
(b)
These corridors allow port customers to move certain types of heavy cargo, such as agricultural goods, and from the port complex, which enhance the competitiveness of the two ports.
(c)
These specially designated corridors include streets located in the Cities of Los Angeles, Long Beach, Carson, as well as California state routes. Overweight trucks that have a gross vehicle weight in excess of 80,000 pounds, but no more than 95,000 pounds, are allowed to operate on heavy container corridors upon issuance of permits from their respective jurisdictions.
(d)
The Cities of Long Beach and Carson share a common method of determining whether a truck is overweight while traversing heavy container corridors. However, the City of Los Angeles currently uses a different method of determining whether a truck is overweight.
(e)
This difference causes confusion, results in users of the heavy container corridors in the City of Los Angeles to incur fines and penalties, and incentivizes noncompliance with safety measures required on the corridors.
(f)
It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act that the Cities of Los Angeles, Carson, and Long Beach all utilize the same methodology to enforce the weight limits established by permits issued by the Department of Transportation for trucks traveling along heavy container corridors.
SECTION 1.
SEC. 2.
Section 35700.5 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
35700.5.
(a) The Department of Transportation, upon adoption of an ordinance or resolution that is in conformance with the provisions of this section by the City of Carson, the City of Long Beach, and the City of Los Angeles, covering designated routes, may issue a special permit to the operator of a vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment, permitting the operation and movement of the vehicle, combination, or equipment, and its load, on the 3.66-mile portion of State Route 47 and State Route 103 known as the Terminal Island Freeway, between Willow Street in the City of Long Beach and Terminal Island in the City of Long Beach and the City of Los Angeles, and on the 2.4-mile portion of State Highway Route 1, that is between Sanford Avenue in the City of Los Angeles and Harbor Avenue in the City of Long Beach, if the vehicle, combination, or equipment meets all of the following criteria:
(1) The vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment is used to transport intermodal cargo containers that are moving in international commerce.
(2) The vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment, in combination with its load, has a maximum gross weight in excess of the maximum gross weight limit of vehicles and loads specified in this chapter, but does not exceed 95,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
(3) (A) The vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment conforms to the axle weight limits specified in Section 35550.
(B) The vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment conforms to the axle weight limits in Section 35551, except as specified in subparagraph (C).
(C) Vehicles, combinations of vehicles, or mobile equipment that impose more than 80,000 pounds total gross weight on the highway by any group of two or more consecutive axles, exceed 60 feet in length between the extremes of any group of two or more consecutive axles, or have more than six axles shall conform to weight limits that shall be determined by the Department of Transportation.
(b) The permit issued by the Department of Transportation shall be required to authorize the operation or movement of a vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment described in subdivision (a). The permit shall not authorize the movement of hazardous materials or hazardous wastes, as those terms are defined by local, state, and federal law. The following criteria shall be included in the application for the permit:
(1) A description of the loads and vehicles to be operated under the permit.
(2) An agreement wherein each applicant agrees to be responsible for all injuries to persons and for all damage to real or personal property of the state and others directly caused by or resulting from the operation of the applicant’s vehicles or combination of vehicles under the conditions of the permit. The applicant shall agree to hold harmless and indemnify the state and all its agents for all costs or claims arising out of or caused by the movement of vehicles or combination of vehicles under the conditions of the permit.
(3) The applicant shall provide proof of financial responsibility that covers the movement of the shipment as described in subdivision (a). The insurance shall meet the minimum requirements established by law.
(4) An agreement to carry a copy of the permit in the vehicle at all times and furnish the copy upon request of an employee of the Department of the California Highway Patrol or the Department of Transportation.
(5) An agreement to place an indicia, developed by the Department of Transportation, in consultation with the Department of the California Highway Patrol, upon the vehicle identifying it as a vehicle possibly operating under this section. The indicia shall be displayed in the lower right area of the front windshield of the power unit. The Department of Transportation may charge a fee to cover the cost of producing and issuing this indicia.
(c) The permit issued pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be valid for one year. The permit may be canceled by the Department of Transportation for any of the following reasons:
(1) The failure of the applicant to maintain any of the conditions required pursuant to subdivision (b).
(2) The failure of the applicant to maintain a satisfactory rating, as required by Section 34501.12.
(3) A determination by the Department of Transportation that there is sufficient cause to cancel the permit because the continued movement of the applicant’s vehicles under the permit would jeopardize the safety of the motorists on the roadway or result in undue damage to the highways listed in this section.
(d) This section does not authorize an applicant or holder of a special permit under subdivision (a) to operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles in excess of the maximum gross weight limit of vehicles and loads specified in this chapter outside of the designated corridors identified in subdivision (a). A violation of this subdivision shall result in the revocation of the permit.
(e) The Department of Transportation may charge a fee to cover the cost of issuing a permit pursuant to subdivision (a).
(f) Notwithstanding Section 35700 and Article 6 (commencing with Section 35780),
if
the City of Carson, the City of Long Beach, and the City of Los Angeles
adopt an ordinance or resolution, as described in subdivision (a), the ordinance or resolution shall conform with the weight limits determined by the Department of Transportation pursuant to this section.
shall use and enforce the axle and gross vehicle weight limits used by the Department of Transportation for a permitted vehicle, combination of vehicles, or mobile equipment operating or moving on a route described in subdivision (a) by individual, and not combined, axle group calculations.
r1 score is: 
0.5944584382871535
==================================
target summary is: 
Under existing law, a certified copy of a birth, death, marriage, or military service record may only be supplied by the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder to an authorized person, as defined, who submits a written, faxed, or digitized image request accompanied by a notarized statement sworn under penalty of perjury that the applicant is an authorized person.
This bill would, until January 1, 2021, if the request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record is made electronically, authorize the official to accept an electronic acknowledgment verifying the identity of the applicant using a multilayered remote identity proofing process. If an applicant’s identity cannot be established electronically, the bill would require the applicant to include with his or her request a statement of identity notarized pursuant to existing law. The bill would require the verification to comply with specified provisions and protect the personal information of the applicant and guard against identity theft. The bill would require the State Registrar and any city or county that fulfills electronic requests without a notarized statement of identity to report to the Attorney General and the Legislature on or before January 1, 2019, regarding the number and types of requests and the availability of consumer protection mechanisms, as specified.
This bill would authorize the State Department of Public Health to implement its procedures relating to electronic verification through an all-county letter or similar instruction from the State Registrar without taking regulatory action. The bill would specifically authorize the department to accept an electronic verification of identity accompanied by an electronic statement sworn under penalty of perjury for the above purposes. By expanding the crime of perjury, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder to receive written, faxed, electronic, or digitized images of a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record. Existing law requires the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder to furnish a certified copy to the applicant. This bill would require the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder to instead provide a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record with an electronic verification of identity accompanied by an electronic statement sworn under penalty of perjury, an electronic verification of identity accompanied by an electronic statement sworn under penalty of perjury, or a faxed copy or digitized image of a certified statement sworn under penalty of perjury that the applicant is an authorized person. The bill would also require the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder to verify the identity of the applicant using a multilayered remote identity proofing process that complies with all of the following requirements. By requiring local officials to perform additional duties, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 103526 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:
103526.
(a) (1) If the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder receives a written, faxed, electronic, or digitized image of a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record pursuant to Section 103525 that is accompanied by a notarized statement sworn under penalty of perjury, an electronic verification of identity accompanied by an electronic statement sworn under penalty of perjury, or a faxed copy or digitized image of a notarized statement sworn under penalty of perjury that the applicant is an authorized person, as defined in this section, that official may furnish a certified copy to the applicant pursuant to Section 103525.
(2) A faxed or digitized image of the notary acknowledgment accompanying a faxed request received pursuant to this subdivision for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record shall be legible and, if the notary’s seal is not photographically reproducible, show the name of the notary, the county of the notary’s principal place of business, the notary’s telephone number, the notary’s registration number, and the notary’s commission expiration date typed or printed in a manner that is photographically reproducible below, or immediately adjacent to, the notary’s signature in the acknowledgment. If a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record is made in person, the official shall take a statement sworn under penalty of perjury that the applicant is signing his or her own legal name and is an authorized person, and that official may then furnish a certified copy to the applicant.
(3) (A) If a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record is made electronically, the official may accept an electronic verification authenticating the identity of the applicant using a multilayered remote identity proofing process that complies with all of the following requirements:
(i) Meets or exceeds the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) electronic authentication guideline for multilayered remote identity proofing.
(ii) (I) Verifies all of the following information provided by the applicant:
(ia) A valid government-issued identification number.
(ib) A financial or utility account number.
(II) The verification pursuant to this subparagraph shall occur through record checks with the state or local agency or a credit reporting agency or similar database and shall confirm that the name, date of birth, address, or other personal information in the record checks are consistent with the information provided by the applicant.
(iii) Meets or exceeds the information security requirements of the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (Title 2.5 (commencing with Section 1633.1) of Part 2 of Division 3 of the Civil Code) and the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347) and all other applicable state and federal laws and regulations to protect the personal information of the applicant and guard against identity theft.
(iv) Retains for each electronic verification, as required by the NIST electronic authentication guideline, a record of the applicant whose identity has been verified and the steps taken to verify the identity.
(B) If an applicant’s identity cannot be established electronically pursuant to this paragraph, the applicant shall include with his or her request a statement of identity notarized pursuant to paragraph (1).
(4) For purposes of this subdivision, “digitized image” means an image of an original paper request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record.
(b) (1) If the person requesting a certified copy of a birth, death, or nonconfidential marriage record is not an authorized person or is an authorized person who is otherwise unable to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (a), the certified copy provided to the applicant shall be an informational certified copy and shall display a legend that states “INFORMATIONAL, NOT A VALID DOCUMENT TO ESTABLISH IDENTITY.” The legend shall be placed on the certificate in a manner that will not conceal information.
(2) If the person requesting a certified copy of a confidential marriage record is not an authorized person or is an authorized person who is otherwise unable to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (a), the official shall not release a certified copy of the confidential marriage record unless otherwise authorized by law.
(c) For purposes of this section, an “authorized person” means:
(1) For purposes of requests for certified copies of confidential marriage records, only a party to the confidential marriage.
(2) For purposes of requests for certified copies of birth, death, or nonconfidential marriage records, a person who is any of the following:
(A) The registrant or a parent or legal guardian of the registrant.
(B) A party entitled to receive the record as a result of a court order, or an attorney or a licensed adoption agency seeking the birth record in order to comply with the requirements of Section 3140 or 7603 of the Family Code.
(C) A member of a law enforcement agency or a representative of another governmental agency, as provided by law, who is conducting official business.
(D) A child, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, spouse, or domestic partner of the registrant.
(E) An attorney representing the registrant or the registrant’s estate, or any person or agency empowered by statute or appointed by a court to act on behalf of the registrant or the registrant’s estate.
(F) An agent or employee of a funeral establishment who acts within the course and scope of his or her employment and who orders certified copies of a death certificate on behalf of an individual specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 7100.
(d) A person who asks the agent or employee of a funeral establishment to request a death certificate on his or her behalf warrants the truthfulness of his or her relationship to the decedent and is personally liable for all damages occasioned by, or resulting from, a breach of that warranty.
(e) Notwithstanding any other law:
(1) A member of a law enforcement agency or a representative of a state or local government agency, as provided by law, who orders a copy of a record to which subdivision (a) applies in conducting official business shall not be required to provide the notarized statement required by subdivision (a).
(2) An agent or employee of a funeral establishment who acts within the course and scope of his or her employment and who orders death certificates on behalf of individuals specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 7100 shall not be required to provide the notarized statement required by subdivision (a).
(f) Informational certified copies of birth and death certificates issued pursuant to subdivision (b) shall only be printed from the single statewide database prepared by the State Registrar and shall be electronically redacted to remove any signatures for purposes of compliance with this section. Local registrars and county recorders shall not issue informational certified copies of birth and death certificates from a source other than the statewide database prepared by the State Registrar. This subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2007, but only after the statewide database becomes operational and the full calendar year of the birth and death indices and images is entered into the statewide database and is available for the respective year of the birth or death certificate for which an informational copy is requested. The State Registrar shall provide written notification to local registrars and county recorders as soon as a year becomes available for issuance from the statewide database.
(g) Notwithstanding the rulemaking provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), the department may implement and administer the changes made to this section by the act that added this subdivision through an all-county letter or similar instructions from the State Registrar without taking regulatory action.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2021, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2021, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 2.
Section 103526 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
103526.
(a) (1) If the State Registrar, local registrar, or county recorder receives a written, faxed, or digitized image of a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record pursuant to Section 103525 that is accompanied by a notarized statement sworn under penalty of perjury, or a faxed copy or digitized image of a notarized statement sworn under penalty of perjury, that the requester is an authorized person, as defined in this section, that official may furnish a certified copy to the applicant pursuant to Section 103525. A faxed or digitized image of the notary acknowledgment accompanying a faxed request received pursuant to this subdivision for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record shall be legible and, if the notary’s seal is not photographically reproducible, show the name of the notary, the county of the notary’s principal place of business, the notary’s telephone number, the notary’s registration number, and the notary’s commission expiration date typed or printed in a manner that is photographically reproducible below, or immediately adjacent to, the notary’s signature in the acknowledgment. If a request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record is made in person, the official shall take a statement sworn under penalty of perjury that the requester is signing his or her own legal name and is an authorized person, and that official may then furnish a certified copy to the applicant.
(2) For purposes of this subdivision, “digitized image” means an image of an original paper request for a certified copy of a birth, death, or marriage record.
(b) (1) If the person requesting a certified copy of a birth, death, or nonconfidential marriage record is not an authorized person or is an authorized person who is otherwise unable to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (a), the certified copy provided to the applicant shall be an informational certified copy and shall display a legend that states “INFORMATIONAL, NOT A VALID DOCUMENT TO ESTABLISH IDENTITY.” The legend shall be placed on the certificate in a manner that will not conceal information.
(2) If the person requesting a certified copy of a confidential marriage record is not an authorized person or is an authorized person who is otherwise unable to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (a), the official shall not release a certified copy of the confidential marriage record unless otherwise authorized by law.
(c) For purposes of this section, an “authorized person” means:
(1) For purposes of requests for certified copies of confidential marriage records, only a party to the confidential marriage.
(2) For purposes of requests for certified copies of birth, death, or nonconfidential marriage records, a person who is any of the following:
(A) The registrant or a parent or legal guardian of the registrant.
(B) A party entitled to receive the record as a result of a court order, or an attorney or a licensed adoption agency seeking the birth record in order to comply with the requirements of Section 3140 or 7603 of the Family Code.
(C) A member of a law enforcement agency or a representative of another governmental agency, as provided by law, who is conducting official business.
(D) A child, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, spouse, or domestic partner of the registrant.
(E) An attorney representing the registrant or the registrant’s estate, or any person or agency empowered by statute or appointed by a court to act on behalf of the registrant or the registrant’s estate.
(F) An agent or employee of a funeral establishment who acts within the course and scope of his or her employment and who orders certified copies of a death certificate on behalf of any individual specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 7100.
(d) A person who asks the agent or employee of a funeral establishment to request a death certificate on his or her behalf warrants the truthfulness of his or her relationship to the decedent, and is personally liable for all damages occasioned by, or resulting from, a breach of that warranty.
(e) Notwithstanding any other law:
(1) A member of a law enforcement agency or a representative of a state or local government agency, as provided by law, who orders a copy of a record to which subdivision (a) applies in conducting official business shall not be required to provide the notarized statement required by subdivision (a).
(2) An agent or employee of a funeral establishment who acts within the course and scope of his or her employment and who orders death certificates on behalf of individuals specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 7100 shall not be required to provide the notarized statement required by subdivision (a).
(f) Informational certified copies of birth and death certificates issued pursuant to subdivision (b) shall only be printed from the single statewide database prepared by the State Registrar and shall be electronically redacted to remove any signatures for purposes of compliance with this section. Local registrars and county recorders shall not issue informational certified copies of birth and death certificates from a source other than the statewide database prepared by the State Registrar. This subdivision shall become operative on July 1, 2007, but only after the statewide database becomes operational and the full calendar year of the birth and death indices and images is entered into the statewide database and is available for the respective year of the birth or death certificate for which an informational copy is requested. The State Registrar shall provide written notification to local registrars and county recorders as soon as a year becomes available for issuance from the statewide database.
(g) This section shall become operative January 1, 2021.
SEC. 3.
Section 103527.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
103527.5.
(a) On or before January 1, 2019, the State Registrar and any city or county that fulfills electronic requests for certified copies of birth, death, or marriage records without being provided a notarized statement that the requester is an authorized person shall report the following information to the Attorney General, the Assembly and Senate Committee on Judiciary, and the Assembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection:
(1) All of the following nonpersonally identifiable information:
(A) The total number of written, electronic, faxed, or in-person requests that include a notarized statement that the requester is an authorized person.
(B) The total number of electronic requests utilizing the multilayered remote identity proofing process described in Section 103526 that do not include a notarized statement.
(C) The total number of electronic requests denied while using the multilayered remote identity proofing process due to insufficient information or failed authentication.
(D) The total number of repeat electronic requests using the multilayered remote identity proofing process for the same record and the same individual.
(2) A description of the mechanism and process, if any, by which consumers who have been victims of identity theft may temporarily limit electronic access to certified vital records, including all of the following:
(A) The number of consumers who have utilized this mechanism and process.
(B) The total number of electronic requests that utilize the multilayered remote identity proofing process, without a notarized statement, requesting records of consumers who have used the temporary limited access mechanism and process.
(C) The total number of electronic requests for records of consumers who have utilized this temporary limited access mechanism and process that were denied while using the multilayered remote identity proofing process.
(3) A description of the mechanism and process by which a consumer may report identity theft resulting from an alleged fraudulent records request, as well as the number of consumers who have used this mechanism and process.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2021, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2021, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 4.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.6880570409982175
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training and requires it to develop and disseminate guidelines and training for law enforcement officers, as described.
This bill would require the commission to develop and disseminate
guidelines and
training for peace officers on principled policing, which would include the subjects of procedural justice and implicit bias, as defined. The bill would require this training
as part of the basic training course for
for specified
peace officers. The bill would also require the commission to
develop and disseminate guidelines and training
certify and make training available
to train peace officers to teach the course of
basic
training on principled policing to other officers in their agencies. The bill would require the commission to offer the
basic
principled policing course and the training course
semiannually
quarterly
commencing in June 2017.
The bill would require the commission, no later than June 1, 2018, to evaluate its current course of basic training and promulgate a plan to incorporate the concepts of principled policing into its course of basic training and would require each peace officer to complete a refresher course no less than every 5 years.
By requiring additional
basic
training for peace officers, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would require the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training to develop and disseminate guidelines and training on principled policing, specifically procedural justice and implicit bias, for all peace officers described in subdivision (a) of Section 13510. The bill would require the commission to develop and implement a course of basic training for peace officers, as specified. The bill would require the course to be evidence-based and would require law enforcement agencies that have demonstrated experience in procedural justice or implicit bias training, university professors who specialize in addressing and reducing racial and identity bias, and community-based organizations and groups who specialize in civil rights and criminal justice to participate in the course development process. The bill would also require the commission to develop and disseminate guidelines and training to at least one quarter of all law enforcement agencies across the state. By imposing additional costs on local law enforcement agencies and school districts, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) The relationship between law enforcement and the communities they are sworn to protect must be grounded in trust in order to ensure safety and protection for all.
(b) Despite the ongoing challenges to fostering strong relationships of trust between law enforcement and communities, the practice of principled policing, specifically procedural justice and implicit bias, is one strategy shown to improve police-community relationships.
(c) It is in the interest of California’s communities and the thousands of men and women who are sworn to serve and protect the public that the State of California support evidence-based strategies to improve the relationship of trust between law enforcement and communities.
(d) Understanding and implementing the practice of principled policing, specifically procedural justice and implicit bias, offers an opportunity for law enforcement and communities to collaboratively build trust and improve safety for all.
SECTION 1.
SEC. 2.
Section 13519.45 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
13519.45.
(a) (1) The commission shall develop and disseminate
guidelines and
training on principled policing, specifically procedural justice and implicit bias, for all peace officers described in subdivision (a) of Section 13510.
(2) “Procedural justice” means
the procedures used by police officers where citizens are treated fairly and with proper respect as human beings.
an approach to policing based on giving people the opportunity to tell their side of the story, remaining neutral in decisionmaking and behavior, treating people with respect, and explaining actions in a way that communicates caring for people’s concerns so as to demonstrate trustworthiness.
(3) “Implicit bias” means thoughts or feelings about
people of which one is unaware and can influence one’s own and others’ actions.
social groups that can influence people’s perceptions, decisions, and actions without awareness.
(4) The course or courses of instruction
and the guidelines
shall stress procedural justice as a strategy for improving the relationship of trust between law enforcement and communities and how implicit bias can be a barrier to procedural justice.
(b) The course of
basic
training for peace officers shall include adequate instruction on procedural justice and implicit bias in order to foster mutual respect and cooperation between law enforcement and communities. The curriculum shall be evidence-based and shall be developed in consultation with appropriate groups and individuals who have expertise in procedural justice or implicit bias, including, but not limited to, law enforcement agencies that have demonstrated experience in procedural justice or implicit bias training, university professors who specialize in addressing and reducing racial and identity bias towards individuals and groups, and community organizations or members who specialize in civil or human rights and criminal justice. The course of instruction shall include, but not be limited to, consideration of each of the following subjects:
(1) Procedural justice as a strategy for improving the relationship of trust between law enforcement agencies and the communities they are sworn to serve.
(2) Implicit bias as a barrier to procedural justice.
(3) Historical and generational effects of policing.
(4) Interactive nature of policing goals, procedural justice, and implicit bias.
(c) The commission shall also
develop and disseminate guidelines and training
certify and make training available
to train peace officers to be able to effectively teach the course of
basic
training on principled policing. The training course shall be structured so that experts on procedural justice and implicit bias train
small groups from
law enforcement agencies to be able to effectively teach the concepts, principles, and research behind procedural justice and implicit bias to colleagues within their departments. Participating law enforcement agencies
shall
are encouraged to
send at least one police executive
or manager
and one training officer to the training course. Law enforcement agencies are encouraged to attend the training course with at least one community member. Upon completion of the training course, peace officers from participating law enforcement agencies shall be
certified
qualified
by the commission to conduct the course
of basic training
on principled policing for colleagues in their respective agencies.
(d) The commission shall offer the course
of basic training
on principled policing and the training
course
on a
semiannual
quarterly
basis in regional training centers across the state commencing in June 2017.
(e) No later than June 1, 2018, the commission shall evaluate its current course of basic training and promulgate a plan to incorporate the concepts of principled policing, as set forth in this section, into its course of basic training and shall require each peace officer described in subdivision (a) of Section 13510 to complete a refresher course no less frequent than every five years.
SEC. 2.
SEC. 3.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
r1 score is: 
0.6415841584158416
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) to determine appropriate targets, if any, for each load-serving entity to procure viable and cost-effective energy storage systems to be achieved by December 31, 2020.
This bill would require the PUC, in consultation with the State Air Resources Board and the State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Commission, to direct the state’s 3 largest electrical corporations to file applications for programs and investments to accelerate widespread deployment of distributed energy storage systems, as defined. The bill would authorize the PUC to approve, or modify and approve, programs and investments in distributed energy storage systems, as provided, and would require the PUC to prioritize those programs and investments that provide distributed energy storage systems to public sector and low-income customers. Because a violation of any order, decision, rule, direction, demand, or requirement of the PUC implementing these requirements would be a crime, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
The California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 designates the State Air Resources Board as the state agency charged with monitoring and regulating sources of emissions of greenhouse gases. The act requires all state agencies to adopt rules and regulations in an open public process to achieve the state’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. This bill would require the state, through the Public Utilities Commission, to take action to promote energy storage, including setting energy storage procurement targets applicable for certain load-serving entities, totaling 1,325 megawatts, and for all other load-serving entities, to be met by 2020, with installations of the energy storage systems meeting the procurement targets by no later than the end of 2024. The bill would authorize the commission to require or authorize an electrical corporation to employ default time-of-use pricing for residential customers. The bill would expand the definition of energy storage to include energy storage systems that can store excess electricity used for purposes of demand response, as provided. By expanding the scope of an existing statute, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(1) The state, through the Public Utilities Commission, has taken action to promote energy storage, including setting energy storage procurement targets applicable for certain load-serving entities, totaling 1,325 megawatts, and for all other load-serving entities, to be met by 2020, with installations of the energy storage systems meeting the procurement targets by no later than the end of 2024.
(2) Ratepayer funding is currently allowed to provide incentives to customers who purchase energy storage for permanent load shifting.
(3) The Legislature reauthorized the self-generation incentive program to provide incentives to customers who achieve reductions in the emissions of greenhouse gases using technologies like energy storage.
(4) The State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Commission funds research and demonstration programs to further the effectiveness of energy storage as an important resource to the electric grid through the Electric Program Investment Charge.
(5) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Order No. 792 directs transmission providers to define energy storage devices as generating facilities, thereby enabling these resources to take advantage of generator interconnection procedures.
(6) Industrial and commercial customers are subject to the time-of-use tariffs of the load-serving entity providing electric services, some of which also include demand charges. Industrial and commercial customers have challenges modifying their businesses to manage their electricity consumption and costs.
(7) Section 745 of the Public Utilities Code authorizes the commission to require or authorize an electrical corporation to employ default time-of-use pricing for residential customers.
(8) Changes in customer electricity usage will modify the peak time for electricity demand and effect demand charges in rate design.
(9) Properly designed and dispatched energy storage systems will help customers manage energy costs, help reduce overall system peak energy demands, improve public health, and assist in achieving greenhouse gas emissions goals.
(10) Increased demand for energy storage technologies will drive new business opportunities and create jobs.
(11) Easing energy costs for large energy users will help keep manufacturing and industrial jobs in California.
(b) It is the policy of the state and the intent of the Legislature to encourage energy storage as a means to achieve ratepayer benefits, ambient air quality standards, and the state’s climate change goals.
SEC. 2.
Section 2838.2 is added to the Public Utilities Code, to read:
2838.2.
(a) The following definitions apply to this section:
(1) “Distributed energy storage system” means an energy storage system with a useful life of at least 10 years that is connected to the distribution system or is located on the customer side of the meter.
(2) “Energy storage management system” means a system by which an electrical corporation can manage the charging and discharging of the distributed energy storage system in a manner that provides benefits to ratepayers.
(b) The commission, in consultation with the State Air Resources Board and the Energy Commission, shall direct the state’s three largest electrical corporations to file applications for programs and investments to accelerate widespread deployment of distributed energy storage systems to achieve ratepayer benefits, reduce dependence on petroleum, meet air quality standards, and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Programs and investments proposed by the state’s three largest electrical corporations shall seek to minimize overall costs and maximize overall benefits.
(c) (1) The commission may approve, or modify and approve, programs and investments of an electrical corporation in distributed energy storage systems with appropriate energy storage management systems and reasonable mechanisms for cost recovery, if they are consistent with the requirements of this section and do not unreasonably limit or impair the ability of nonutility enterprises to market and deploy energy storage systems. The total capacity of the programs and investments in distributed energy storage systems approved by the commission pursuant to this section shall not exceed 500 megawatts, divided equally among the state’s three largest electrical corporations.
(2) No more than 25 percent of the capacity of distributed energy storage systems approved for programs and investments pursuant to this section shall be provided by behind-the-meter systems.
(3) The capacity authorized pursuant to paragraph (1) is in addition to any investments authorized pursuant to Section 2836.
(d) (1) The commission shall resolve each application filed by an electrical corporation pursuant to this section within 12 months of the date of filing of the completed application.
(2) The commission shall prioritize those programs and investments that provide distributed energy storage systems to public sector and low-income customers.
SEC. 3.
Section 2838.3 is added to the Public Utilities Code, to read:
2838.3.
It is the intent of the Legislature that the commission, in authorizing an electrical corporation to recover the costs of approved energy storage programs and investments from all customers pursuant to Section 2838.2, shall ensure that the costs for the programs and investments are recovered in proportion to the benefits received, consistent with Section 451.
SEC. 4.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.6055045871559634
==================================
