Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large pretrained using our method, finetuned on 100 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the Department of Industrial Relations in the Labor and Workforce Development Agency to foster, promote, and develop the welfare of the wage earners of California, to improve their working conditions, and to advance their opportunities for profitable employment. Existing law establishes within the department the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement, which is vested with the general duty of enforcing labor laws, including those relating to wage claims and employer retaliation.
This bill would require every employer subject to its provisions to keep accurate records of specific information regarding employees for 3 years. The bill would require the division to enforce its provisions and would authorize the Labor Commissioner, who is the chief of the division, to adopt any regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of the bill.
The bill would require every employer, effective July 1, 2018, to register annually with the Labor Commissioner in accordance with prescribed procedures. The bill would prohibit an employer from conducting any business without registration as required by the bill and would authorize the commissioner to revoke a registration under certain circumstances. The bill would set application and renewal fees for registration.
The bill would require an employer to include specific information in the registration application. The bill would prohibit the division from granting registration under specific circumstances. The bill would require the commissioner to maintain on the department’s Internet Web site a public database of registered property service employers.
The bill would require the division, by January 1, 2019, to establish a biennial in-person sexual violence and harassment prevention training requirement for employees and employers with the assistance of a prescribed advisory committee to be convened by the director. The bill would require employers, as of July 1, 2018, and until the division establishes that training requirement, to provide employees with a pamphlet of the Department of Fair Employment and Housing on sexual harassment.
The bill would establish civil fines for specific violations of its provisions and vest in the commission the exclusive authority to enforce the civil fine provisions. The bill would require the deposit of registration fees and civil fines in the Labor Enforcement and Compliance Fund and would direct that the moneys in the fund from those fees and fines be used only for the reasonable costs of administering the registration of janitorial contractors and the costs and obligations associated with the administration and enforcement of the bill by the division.
produced summary is: 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Part 4.2 (commencing with Section 1420) is added to Division 2 of the Labor Code, to read:
PART 4.2. Property Service Workers Protection
1420.
For purposes of this part:
(a) (1) “Covered worker” means a janitor, including any individual predominantly working, whether as an employee, independent contractor, or a franchisee, as a janitor, as that term is defined in the Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations maintained by the United State Department of Labor.
(2) “Covered worker” does not include any individual whose work duties are predominantly final cleanup of debris, grounds, and buildings near the completion of a construction, alteration, demolition, installation, or repair work project, including, but not limited to, street cleaners.
(b) “Current and valid registration” means an active registration pursuant to this part that is not expired or revoked.
(c) “Department” means the Department of Industrial Relations.
(d) “Director” means the Director of Industrial Relations.
(e) (1) “Employer” means any person or entity that employs at least one employee and one or more covered workers and that enters into contracts, subcontracts, or franchise arrangements to provide janitorial services. The term “employer” includes the term “covered successor employer.”
(2) “Covered successor employer” means an employer who meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) Uses substantially the same equipment, supervisors, and workforce to offer substantially the same services to substantially the same clients as a predecessor employer, unless the employer maintains the same workforce pursuant to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 1060) of Part 3. In addition, an employer who has operated with a current and valid registration for at least the preceding three years shall not be considered a covered successor employer for using substantially the same equipment, supervisors, and workforce to substantially the same clients, if all of the following apply:
(i) The individuals in the workforce were not referred or supplied for employment by the predecessor employer to the successor employer.
(ii) The successor employer has not had any interest in, or connection with, the operation, ownership, management, or control of the business of the predecessor employer within the preceding three years.
(B) Shares in the ownership, management, control of the workforce, or interrelations of business operations with the predecessor employer.
(C) Is an immediate family member of any owner, partner, officer, licensee, or director of the predecessor employer or of any person who had a financial interest in the predecessor employer. “Immediate family member” means a spouse, parent, sibling, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, grandparent, grandson, granddaughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or cousin.
(f) “Commissioner” means the Labor Commissioner of the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement of the department.
(g) “Supervisor” has the same meaning as in subdivision (t) of Section 12926 of the Government Code.
1421.
Every employer shall keep accurate records for three years, showing all of the following:
(a) The names and addresses of all employees engaged in rendering actual services for any business of the employer.
(b) The hours worked daily by each employee, including the times the employee begins and ends each work period.
(c) The wage and wage rate paid each payroll period.
(d) The age of all minor employees.
(e) Any other conditions of employment.
1422.
The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall enforce this part. The commissioner may adopt any regulations necessary to carry out this part.
1423.
Effective July 1, 2018, every employer shall register with the commissioner annually.
1424.
When a certificate of current and valid registration is originally issued or renewed under this part, the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall provide related and supplemental information to the registrant regarding business administration and applicable labor laws. As of July 1, 2018, employers covered by this part shall provide all covered workers a copy of the Department of Fair Employment and Housing pamphlet DFEH-185, entitled “Sexual Harassment,” until the sexual violence and harassment prevention training requirement is established pursuant to Section 1429.5.
1425.
Proof of current and valid registration shall be by an official Division of Labor Standards Enforcement registration form.
1426.
At least 60 days prior to the expiration of each registrant’s registration, the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall send a renewal notice to the last known address of the registrant. However, omission of the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement to provide the renewal notice in accordance with this section shall not excuse a registrant from making timely application for renewal of registration, shall not be a defense in any action or proceeding involving failure to renew registration, and shall not subject the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement to any legal liability.
1427.
The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall collect from each employer an initial nonrefundable application fee of five hundred dollars ($500), and an annual fee of five hundred dollars ($500) on the anniversary date of initial application, and may periodically adjust the registration fee in an amount sufficient to fund all direct and indirect costs to administer and enforce this part.
1428.
An employer shall not conduct any business without complying with the registration requirements of this part. The commissioner may revoke a registration if he or she finds an employer to be out of compliance with any requirement of this part or to have failed to satisfy any of the conditions of Section 1429.
1429.
The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall not approve the registration of any employer until all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(a) The employer has executed a written application, in a form prescribed by the commissioner and subscribed and sworn to by the employer containing the following:
(1) The name of the business entity and, if applicable, its fictitious or “doing business as” name.
(2) The form of the business entity and, if a corporation, all of the following:
(A) The date of incorporation.
(B) The state in which incorporated.
(C) If a foreign corporation, the date the articles of incorporation were filed with the California Secretary of State.
(D) Whether the corporation is in good standing with the California Secretary of State.
(3) The federal employer identification number (FEIN) and the state employer identification number (SEIN) of the business.
(4) The address of the business and the telephone number and, if applicable, the addresses and telephone numbers of any branch locations.
(5) Whether the application is for a new or renewal registration and, if the application is for a renewal, the prior registration number.
(6) The names, residential addresses, telephone numbers, and social security numbers of the following persons:
(A) All corporate officers, if the business entity is a corporation.
(B) All persons exercising management responsibility in the applicant’s office, regardless of form of business entity.
(C) All persons, except bona fide employees on regular salaries, who have a financial interest of 10 percent or more in the business, regardless of the form of business entity, and the actual percent owned by each of those persons.
(7) The policy number, effective date, expiration date, and name and address of the carrier of the applicant business’ current workers’ compensation coverage.
(8) (A) Whether the employer and any persons named in response to subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (6) presently:
(i) Owe any unpaid wages.
(ii) Have unpaid judgments outstanding.
(iii) Have any liens or suits pending in court against himself or herself.
(iv) Owe payroll taxes, or personal, partnership, or corporate income taxes, Social Security taxes, or disability insurance.
(B) An applicant who answers affirmatively to any item described in subparagraph (A) shall provide, as part of the application, additional information on the unpaid amounts, including the name and address of the party owed, the amount owed, and any existing payment arrangements.
(9) (A) Whether the employer and any persons named in response to subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (6) have ever been cited or assessed any penalty for violating any provision of this code.
(B) An applicant who answers affirmatively to any item described in subparagraph (A) shall provide additional information, as part of the application, on the date, nature of citation, amount of penalties assessed for each citation, and the disposition of the citation, if any. The application shall describe any appeal filed. If the citation was not appealed, or if it was upheld on appeal, the applicant shall state whether the penalty assessment was paid.
(10) Effective January 1, 2020, all new applications for registration and renewal of registration shall complete the sexual violence and harassment prevention training requirements prescribed by the division and developed pursuant to Section 1429.5.
(11) Such other information as the commissioner requires for the administration and enforcement of this part.
(b) The employer has paid a registration fee to the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement pursuant to Section 1427.
(c) Notwithstanding any other law, violation of this section shall not be a crime.
1429.5.
The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall establish a biennial in-person sexual violence and harassment prevention training requirement for employees and employers covered by this part by January 1, 2019. To assist in developing these standards, the director shall convene an advisory committee to recommend requirements for a sexual harassment prevention training program. The advisory committee shall be composed of representatives of the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement, the Division of Occupational Safety and Health, and the Department of Fair Employment and Housing, and shall also include representatives from a recognized or certified collective bargaining agent that represents janitorial workers, employers, labor-management groups in the janitorial industry, sexual assault victims advocacy groups, and other related subject matter experts. The director shall convene the advisory committee no later than July 1, 2017. The advisory committee shall consider the requirements of Section 12950.1 of the Government Code when developing the recommended standard. The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall propose the requirements for the sexual violence and harassment prevention training requirement no later than January 1, 2018.
1430.
The Division of Labor Standards Enforcement shall not register or renew the registration of an employer in any of the following circumstances:
(a) The employer has not fully satisfied any final judgment for unpaid wages due to an employee or former employee of a business for which the employer is required to register under this chapter.
(b) The employer has failed to remit the proper amount of contributions required by the Unemployment Insurance Code or the Employment Development Department has made an assessment for those unpaid contributions against the employer that has become final and the employer has not fully paid the amount of delinquency for those unpaid contributions.
(c) The employer has failed to remit the amount of Social Security and Medicare tax contributions required by the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) to the Internal Revenue Service and the employer has not fully paid the amount or delinquency for those unpaid contributions.
1431.
The commissioner shall maintain a public database of property service employers, on the Internet Web site of the department, including the name, address, registration number, and effective dates of registration.
1432.
(a) An employer who fails to register pursuant to Section 1423 is subject to a civil fine of one hundred dollars ($100) for each calendar day that the employer is unregistered, not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(b) Any person or entity that contracts with an employer who lacks a current and valid registration, as displayed on the online registration database at the time the contract is executed, extended, renewed, or modified, under this part on the date the person or entity enters into or renews a contract or subcontract for janitorial services with the employer is subject to a civil fine of not less than two thousand dollars ($2,000) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in the case of a first violation, and a civil fine of not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) nor more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for a subsequent violation.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the authority to enforce this section is vested exclusively with the commissioner. The procedures for issuing, contesting, and enforcing judgments for citations or civil penalties issued by the commissioner shall be the same as those set forth in Section 1197.1.
1433.
(a) All registration fees collected pursuant to Section 1427, all civil fines collected pursuant to Section 1432, and any other moneys as are designated by statute or order shall be deposited in the Labor Enforcement and Compliance Fund.
(b) Moneys deposited in the fund pursuant to Section 1427 and Section 1432 shall be used only for the following purposes:
(1) The reasonable costs of administering the registration of janitorial contractors pursuant to this part by the Division of Labor Standards and Enforcement.
(2) The costs and obligations associated with the administration and enforcement of this part by the Division of Labor Standards and Enforcement.
(c) The annual employer registration renewal fee specified in of Section 1427, and any adjusted application renewal fee, shall be set in amounts that are sufficient to support the direct costs and a reasonable percentage attributable to the indirect costs of the division for administering this part.
1434.
A successor employer is liable for any wages and penalties its predecessor employer owes to any of the predecessor employer’s former employee or employees, if the successor employer meets any of the following criteria:
(a) Uses substantially the same workforce to offer substantially the same services as the predecessor employer. This factor does not apply to employers who maintain the same workforce pursuant to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 1060) of Part 3.
(b) Shares in the ownership, management, control of the labor relations, or interrelations of business operations with the predecessor employer.
(c) Employs in a managerial capacity any person who directly or indirectly controlled the wages, hours, or working conditions of the affected employees of the predecessor employer.
(d) Is an immediate family member of any owner, partner, officer, or director of the predecessor employer of any person who had a financial interest in the predecessor employer.
r1 score is: 
0.1495726495726496
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law, subject to exceptions, prohibits a person from making more than one application to purchase a handgun within any 30-day period. Violation of that prohibition is a crime. Existing law exempts from that prohibition a firearms transaction where neither of the parties is a firearms dealer if the transaction is completed through a dealer. Existing law prohibits a firearms dealer from delivering a handgun to a person whenever the dealer is notified by the Department of Justice that within the preceding 30-day period the purchaser has made another application to purchase a handgun that does not fall within an exception to the 30-day prohibition. A violation of that delivery prohibition by the dealer is a crime.
This bill would make the 30-day prohibition and the dealer delivery prohibition described above applicable to all types of firearms. The bill would delete the private party transaction exemption to the 30-day prohibition and instead would exempt from that prohibition the transfer of a firearm conducted through a licensed firearms dealer if the firearm is being transferred by bequest or intestate succession, the purchase of a firearm that is not a handgun or a finished frame or receiver by a licensed hunter, and the purchase of a firearm from a nonprofit entity conducting an auction or similar event, as specified. The bill would make additional conforming changes and technical, nonsubstantive changes.
By expanding the scope of existing crimes, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
This bill would incorporate changes to Sections 26835 and 27535 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and SB 894, which would become operative only if both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, and this bill is chaptered last.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
A licensee shall post conspicuously within the licensed premises the following warnings in block letters not less than one inch in height: (a) “IF YOU KEEP A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE OBTAINS IT AND USES IT, RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH, OR CARRIES IT TO A PUBLIC PLACE, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,000), UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 26835 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
26835.
A licensee shall post conspicuously within the licensed premises the following warnings in block letters not less than one inch in height:
(a) “IF YOU KEEP A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE OBTAINS IT AND USES IT, RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH, OR CARRIES IT TO A PUBLIC PLACE, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR OR A FELONY UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE, TO KEEP IT FROM TEMPORARILY FUNCTIONING.”
(b) “IF YOU KEEP A PISTOL, REVOLVER, OR OTHER FIREARM CAPABLE OF BEING CONCEALED UPON THE PERSON, WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE GAINS ACCESS TO THE FIREARM, AND CARRIES IT OFF-PREMISES, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE, TO KEEP IT FROM TEMPORARILY FUNCTIONING.”
(c) “IF YOU KEEP ANY FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE GAINS ACCESS TO THE FIREARM, AND CARRIES IT OFF-PREMISES TO A SCHOOL OR SCHOOL-SPONSORED EVENT, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($5,000), UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE.”
(d) “IF YOU NEGLIGENTLY STORE OR LEAVE A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, WHERE A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE IS LIKELY TO ACCESS IT, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,000), UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE.”
(e) “DISCHARGING FIREARMS IN POORLY VENTILATED AREAS, CLEANING FIREARMS, OR HANDLING AMMUNITION MAY RESULT IN EXPOSURE TO LEAD, A SUBSTANCE KNOWN TO CAUSE BIRTH DEFECTS, REPRODUCTIVE HARM, AND OTHER SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. HAVE ADEQUATE VENTILATION AT ALL TIMES. WASH HANDS THOROUGHLY AFTER EXPOSURE.”
(f) “FEDERAL REGULATIONS PROVIDE THAT IF YOU DO NOT TAKE PHYSICAL POSSESSION OF THE FIREARM THAT YOU ARE ACQUIRING OWNERSHIP OF WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER YOU COMPLETE THE INITIAL BACKGROUND CHECK PAPERWORK, THEN YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE BACKGROUND CHECK PROCESS A SECOND TIME IN ORDER TO TAKE PHYSICAL POSSESSION OF THAT FIREARM.”
(g) “NO PERSON SHALL MAKE AN APPLICATION TO PURCHASE MORE THAN ONE FIREARM WITHIN ANY 30-DAY PERIOD AND NO DELIVERY SHALL BE MADE TO ANY PERSON WHO HAS MADE AN APPLICATION TO PURCHASE MORE THAN ONE FIREARM WITHIN ANY 30-DAY PERIOD.”
SEC. 1.5.
Section 26835 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
26835.
A licensee shall post conspicuously within the licensed premises the following warnings in block letters not less than one inch in height:
(a) “IF YOU KEEP A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE OBTAINS IT AND USES IT, RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH, OR CARRIES IT TO A PUBLIC PLACE, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR OR A FELONY UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE, TO KEEP IT FROM TEMPORARILY FUNCTIONING.”
(b) “IF YOU KEEP A PISTOL, REVOLVER, OR OTHER FIREARM CAPABLE OF BEING CONCEALED UPON THE PERSON, WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE GAINS ACCESS TO THE FIREARM, AND CARRIES IT OFF-PREMISES, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE, TO KEEP IT FROM TEMPORARILY FUNCTIONING.”
(c) “IF YOU KEEP ANY FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, AND A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE GAINS ACCESS TO THE FIREARM, AND CARRIES IT OFF-PREMISES TO A SCHOOL OR SCHOOL-SPONSORED EVENT, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($5,000), UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE.”
(d) “IF YOU NEGLIGENTLY STORE OR LEAVE A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN ANY PREMISES UNDER YOUR CUSTODY OR CONTROL, WHERE A PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE IS LIKELY TO ACCESS IT, YOU MAY BE GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,000), UNLESS YOU STORED THE FIREARM IN A LOCKED CONTAINER, OR LOCKED THE FIREARM WITH A LOCKING DEVICE.”
(e) “DISCHARGING FIREARMS IN POORLY VENTILATED AREAS, CLEANING FIREARMS, OR HANDLING AMMUNITION MAY RESULT IN EXPOSURE TO LEAD, A SUBSTANCE KNOWN TO CAUSE BIRTH DEFECTS, REPRODUCTIVE HARM, AND OTHER SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. HAVE ADEQUATE VENTILATION AT ALL TIMES. WASH HANDS THOROUGHLY AFTER EXPOSURE.”
(f) “FEDERAL REGULATIONS PROVIDE THAT IF YOU DO NOT TAKE PHYSICAL POSSESSION OF THE FIREARM THAT YOU ARE ACQUIRING OWNERSHIP OF WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER YOU COMPLETE THE INITIAL BACKGROUND CHECK PAPERWORK, THEN YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE BACKGROUND CHECK PROCESS A SECOND TIME IN ORDER TO TAKE PHYSICAL POSSESSION OF THAT FIREARM.”
(g) “NO PERSON SHALL MAKE AN APPLICATION TO PURCHASE MORE THAN ONE FIREARM WITHIN ANY 30-DAY PERIOD AND NO DELIVERY SHALL BE MADE TO ANY PERSON WHO HAS MADE AN APPLICATION TO PURCHASE MORE THAN ONE FIREARM WITHIN ANY 30-DAY PERIOD.”
(h) “IF A FIREARM YOU OWN OR POSSESS IS LOST OR STOLEN, YOU MUST REPORT THE LOSS OR THEFT TO A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY WHERE THE LOSS OR THEFT OCCURRED WITHIN FIVE DAYS OF THE TIME YOU KNEW OR REASONABLY SHOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT THE FIREARM HAD BEEN LOST OR STOLEN.”
SEC. 2.
Section 27535 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
27535.
(a) A person shall not make an application to purchase more than one firearm within any 30-day period.
(b) Subdivision (a) does not apply to any of the following:
(1) Any law enforcement agency.
(2) Any agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties.
(3) Any state or local correctional facility.
(4) Any private security company licensed to do business in California.
(5) Any person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2, and who is authorized to, and does, carry a firearm during the course and scope of employment as a peace officer.
(6) Any motion picture, television, or video production company or entertainment or theatrical company whose production by its nature involves the use of a firearm.
(7) Any person who may, pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 27600), Article 3 (commencing with Section 27650), or Article 4 (commencing with Section 27700), claim an exemption from the waiting period set forth in Section 27540.
(8) Any person who is licensed as a collector pursuant to Chapter 44 (commencing with Section 921) of Title 18 of the United States Code and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, and has a current certificate of eligibility issued by the Department of Justice pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 26700) of Chapter 2.
(9) The exchange of a firearm where the dealer purchased that firearm from the person seeking the exchange within the 30-day period immediately preceding the date of exchange or replacement.
(10) The replacement of a firearm when the person’s firearm was lost or stolen, and the person reported that firearm lost or stolen prior to the completion of the application to purchase to any local law enforcement agency of the city, county, or city and county in which the person resides.
(11) The return of any firearm to its owner.
(12) A community college that is certified by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training to present the law enforcement academy basic course or other commission-certified law enforcement training.
(13) A transaction completed through a licensed firearms dealer pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 28050) if both of the following conditions apply:
(A) The transferor is an executor or administrator of an estate.
(B) The transferee is a person acquiring ownership of the firearm by bequest or intestate succession from the estate.
(14) The purchase of a firearm that is not a handgun or a finished frame or receiver by a person who has been issued a valid hunting license by the state.
(15) The purchase of a firearm that is not a handgun acquired at an auction or similar event conducted by a nonprofit public benefit or mutual benefit corporation to fund the activities of that corporation or local chapters of that corporation.
SEC. 2.5.
Section 27535 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
27535.
(a) A person shall not make an application to purchase more than one firearm within any 30-day period.
(b) Subdivision (a) does not apply to any of the following:
(1) Any law enforcement agency.
(2) Any agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties.
(3) Any state or local correctional facility.
(4) Any private security company licensed to do business in California.
(5) Any person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2, and who is authorized to, and does, carry a firearm during the course and scope of employment as a peace officer.
(6) Any motion picture, television, or video production company or entertainment or theatrical company whose production by its nature involves the use of a firearm.
(7) Any person who may, pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 27600), Article 3 (commencing with Section 27650), or Article 4 (commencing with Section 27700), claim an exemption from the waiting period set forth in Section 27540.
(8) Any person who is licensed as a collector pursuant to Chapter 44 (commencing with Section 921) of Title 18 of the United States Code and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, and has a current certificate of eligibility issued by the Department of Justice pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 26700) of Chapter 2.
(9) The exchange of a firearm where the dealer purchased that firearm from the person seeking the exchange within the 30-day period immediately preceding the date of exchange or replacement.
(10) The replacement of a firearm when the person’s firearm was lost or stolen, and the person reported that firearm lost or stolen pursuant to Section 25250 prior to the completion of the application to purchase the replacement firearm.
(11) The return of any firearm to its owner.
(12) A community college that is certified by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training to present the law enforcement academy basic course or other commission-certified law enforcement training.
(13) A transaction completed through a licensed firearms dealer pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 28050) if both of the following conditions apply:
(A) The transferor is an executor or administrator of an estate.
(B) The transferee is a person acquiring ownership of the firearm by bequest or intestate succession from the estate.
(14) The purchase of a firearm that is not a handgun or a finished frame or receiver by a person who has been issued a valid hunting license by the state.
(15) The purchase of a firearm that is not a handgun acquired at an auction or similar event conducted by a nonprofit public benefit or mutual benefit corporation to fund the activities of that corporation or local chapters of that corporation.
SEC. 3.
Section 27540 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
27540.
A dealer, whether or not acting pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 28050), shall not deliver a firearm to a person, as follows:
(a) Within 10 days of the application to purchase, or, after notice by the department pursuant to Section 28220, within 10 days of the submission to the department of any correction to the application, or within 10 days of the submission to the department of any fee required pursuant to Section 28225, whichever is later.
(b) Unless unloaded and securely wrapped or unloaded and in a locked container.
(c) Unless the purchaser, transferee, or person being loaned the firearm presents clear evidence of the person’s identity and age to the dealer.
(d) Whenever the dealer is notified by the Department of Justice that the person is prohibited by state or federal law from possessing, receiving, owning, or purchasing a firearm.
(e) A handgun shall not be delivered unless the purchaser, transferee, or person being loaned the handgun presents a handgun safety certificate. Commencing January 1, 2015, any firearm, including a handgun, shall not be delivered unless the purchaser, transferee, or person being loaned the firearm presents a firearm safety certificate to the dealer, except that, in the case of a handgun, an unexpired handgun safety certificate may be presented.
(f) A firearm shall not be delivered whenever the dealer is notified by the Department of Justice that within the preceding 30-day period the purchaser has made another application to purchase a firearm and that the previous application to purchase did not involve any of the entities or circumstances specified in subdivision (b) of Section 27535.
SEC. 4.
Section 27590 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
27590.
(a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), (c), or (e), a violation of this article is a misdemeanor.
(b) If any of the following circumstances apply, a violation of this article is punishable by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170 for two, three, or four years:
(1) If the violation is of subdivision (a) of Section 27500.
(2) If the defendant has a prior conviction of violating the provisions, other than Section 27535, Section 27560 involving a firearm that is not a handgun, or Section 27565 involving a firearm that is not a handgun, of this article or former Section 12100 of this code, as Section 12100 read at any time from when it was enacted by Section 3 of Chapter 1386 of the Statutes of 1988 to when it was repealed by Section 18 of Chapter 23 of the Statutes of 1994, or Section 8101 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(3) If the defendant has a prior conviction of violating any offense specified in Section 29905 or of a violation of Section 32625 or 33410, or of former Section 12560, as that section read at any time from when it was enacted by Section 4 of Chapter 931 of the Statutes of 1965 to when it was repealed by Section 14 of Chapter 9 of the Statutes of 1990, or of any provision listed in Section 16590.
(4) If the defendant is in a prohibited class described in Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 29800) or Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 29900) of Division 9, or Section 8100 or 8103 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(5) A violation of this article by a person who actively participates in a “criminal street gang” as defined in Section 186.22.
(6) A violation of Section 27510 involving the delivery of any firearm to a person who the dealer knows, or should know, is a minor.
(c) If any of the following circumstances apply, a violation of this article shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year or pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment:
(1) A violation of Section 27515, 27520, or subdivision (b) of Section 27500.
(2) A violation of Section 27505 involving the sale, loan, or transfer of a handgun to a minor.
(3) A violation of Section 27510 involving the delivery of a handgun.
(4) A violation of subdivision (a), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of Section 27540 involving a handgun.
(5) A violation of Section 27545 involving a handgun.
(6) A violation of Section 27550.
(7) A violation of Section 27585 involving a handgun.
(d) If both of the following circumstances apply, an additional term of imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170 for one, two, or three years shall be imposed in addition and consecutive to the sentence prescribed:
(1) A violation of Section 27510 or subdivision (b) of Section 27500.
(2) The firearm transferred in violation of Section 27510 or subdivision (b) of Section 27500 is used in the subsequent commission of a felony for which a conviction is obtained and the prescribed sentence is imposed.
(e) (1) A first violation of Section 27535 is an infraction punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50).
(2) A second violation of Section 27535 is an infraction punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100).
(3) A third or subsequent violation of Section 27535 is a misdemeanor.
(4) For purposes of this subdivision each application to purchase a firearm in violation of Section 27535 shall be deemed a separate offense.
SEC. 5.
Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 26835 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and Senate Bill 894. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, (2) each bill amends Section 26835 of the Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Senate Bill 894, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
SEC. 6.
Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 27535 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and Senate Bill 894. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2017, (2) each bill amends Section 27535 of the Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Senate Bill 894, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.
SEC. 7.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.1585081585081585
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) The Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), an initiative measure enacted by the voters as Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, imposes a 1% tax on that portion of a taxpayer’s taxable income that exceeds $1,000,000 and requires that the revenue from that tax be deposited in the Mental Health Services Fund to fund various county mental health programs. The MHSA authorizes the Legislature to amend its provisions by a
2/3
vote, provided that the amendment is consistent with and furthers the intent of the act.
Existing law, known as the No Place Like Home Program, requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to award $2,000,000,000 among counties to finance capital costs, including, but not limited to, acquisition, design, construction, rehabilitation, or preservation, and to capitalize operating reserves, of permanent supportive housing for the target population, as specified. Existing law requires the department to distribute $1,800,000,000 through a competitive program and to allocate $200,000,000 among all counties within this state on an “over-the-counter” population basis.
The bill would authorize the California Health Facilities Financing Authority and the department to, among other things, enter into contracts to provide services pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program related to permanent supportive housing. The bill would also authorize the authority to issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for these purposes and to make secured or unsecured loans to the department in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would require that the dollar limit on amounts distributed under the No Place Like Home Program be based on the principal amount of bonds issued by the authority and loaned to the department.
The bill would additionally authorize the use of moneys in the Mental Health Services Fund for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also establish and continuously appropriate the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount in the Mental Health Services Fund. The bill would require the Controller, no later than the last day of each month and prior to any transfer or expenditure from the fund for any other purpose for the following month, to transfer from the Mental Health Services Fund to the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount an amount necessary to cover the costs the authority is required to pay to the department pursuant to an above-described service contract, as determined by the authority but not to exceed an aggregate amount of $140,000,000 per year. The bill would prohibit moneys in the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount from being loaned to the General Fund pursuant to specified statutes.
The bill would exempt service contracts between the department and the authority pursuant to these provisions from specified public contracting laws. The bill would also exempt loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority from any other law applicable to the execution of those agreements or issuance of those bonds, including the California Environmental Quality Act.
(2) Existing law establishes the No Place Like Home Fund and continuously appropriates the moneys in this fund to the Department of Housing and Community Development for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the deposit into the fund of, among other moneys, any proceeds from the issuance of bonds by the Treasurer.
This bill would instead require the department to deposit into the fund the proceeds of loans derived from the issuance of bonds under this bill by the California Health Facilities Financing Authority. The bill would additionally continuously appropriate moneys in the fund to the Treasurer and the authority for purposes of the No Place Like Home Program.
(3) Existing law requires counties to annually report specified information to the Department of Housing and Community Development on activities funded under the No Place Like Home Program, including information on the funded supportive housing development. Existing law also requires the department to report specified information on the program to the Legislature by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect.
This bill would require the department to monitor county compliance with applicable program regulations, loan agreements and regulatory agreements and any agreements related to the program that designate the department as a 3rd party beneficiary, and enforce those agreements to the extent necessary and desirable in order to provide, to the greatest degree possible, the successful provision of permanent supportive housing. The bill would require the department to submit a report to the California Health Facilities Financing Authority by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect, that contains specified information about the counties participating in the program and the services that have been provided pursuant to any service contracts between the department and the authority, as described above.
(4) Existing law establishes a procedure by which a public agency may bring an action in the superior court to determine the validity of any matter authorized by other law. Existing law authorizes an action under this procedure to determine the legality of any action by the Department of Housing and Community Development related to the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the department to issue its first request for proposal for the competitive program no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds within 60 days, after the deadline for appeals under the validation procedure.
This bill would recast this authorization to instead authorize an action to determine the validity of any service contract or loan agreement between the department and the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, as described above, in accordance with specified provisions governing actions to determine the validity of bonds, warrants, contracts, obligations, or evidences of indebtedness. The bill would instead require the department to issue its first request for proposal no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds as soon as reasonably practical, but no later than 150 days, after the effective date of a final judgment with no further opportunity for appeals, in any court proceeding affirming the validity of the service contracts between the department and the authority and any bonds issued by the authority.
(5) Existing law authorizes the Department of Finance to authorize a loan from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund for cashflow purposes in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. Existing law requires that a loan comply with certain requirements, including that the purpose of the loan is to allow the department to begin implementation activities related to the No Place Like Home Program, including drafting program guidelines and regulations.
This bill would instead authorize the Department of Finance to authorize one or more loans from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The bill would additionally authorize loans for the purpose of allowing the Department of Housing and Community Development, the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, and the Treasurer to implement the above-described provisions pertaining to service contracts and loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority.
(6) Existing law makes various findings and declarations regarding the No Place Like Home Program.
This bill would make additional findings and declarations pertaining to the financing and implementation of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also make various technical and conforming changes to the No Place Like Home Program.
(7) This bill would declare that its provisions further the intent of the MHSA.
(8) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
(1) Existing law establishes the No Place Like Home Program, which is administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development, to provide permanent supportive housing for persons experiencing homelessness. Existing law requires the authority to issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing. Existing law provides that the authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under the No Place Like
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 15463 is added to the Government Code, to read:
15463.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “No Place Like Home Program” has the same meaning as “program” as defined in Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “No Place Like Home Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(3) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(b) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(c) The authority may provide for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of redeeming, refunding, or retiring any bonds or any series or issue of bonds then outstanding issued under subdivision (b), including the payment of any redemption premium thereon and any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of redemption, purchase, or maturity of the bonds. Subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 15446 apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision. Sections 15441 to 15445, inclusive, and Sections 15447 to 15450, inclusive, apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision in the same manner and to the same extent as bonds issued under subdivision (b).
(d) The authority may make secured or unsecured loans to the Department of Housing and Community Development in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program or to refund bonds previously issued pursuant to this section, in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development. Loan proceeds may also be used to fund reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement and liquidity costs, expenses of funding, financing, and refinancing, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(e) Each of the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development may enter into any agreement for credit enhancement or liquidity, execute any instruments, and do any other acts it deems necessary, convenient, or desirable in connection with revenue bonds issued pursuant to this section or carry out any power expressly granted pursuant to this section.
(f) (1) This section provides a complete, additional, and alternative method for performing the acts authorized by this section and shall be construed as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws; provided, however, that the issuance of the bonds and refunding bonds and the execution of any agreements under this section are not subject to, and need not comply with, the requirements of any other law applicable to the issuance of those bonds or refunding bonds and the execution of those agreements, including, but not limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), funding or financing under this section shall not exempt the permanent supportive housing from the requirements of any other law otherwise applicable to the permanent supportive housing.
SEC. 2.
Section 5849.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
5849.1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares that this part is consistent with and furthers the purposes of the Mental Health Services Act, enacted by Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, within the meaning of Section 18 of that measure.
(b) The Legislature further finds and declares all of the following:
(1) Housing is a key factor for stabilization and recovery to occur and results in improved outcomes for individuals living with a mental illness.
(2) Untreated mental illness can increase the risk of homelessness, especially for single adults.
(3) California has the nation’s largest homeless population that is disproportionally comprised of women with children, veterans, and the chronically homeless.
(4) California has the largest number of homeless veterans in the United States at 24 percent of the total population in our nation. Fifty percent of California’s veterans live with serious mental illness and 70 percent have a substance use disorder.
(5) Fifty percent of mothers experiencing homelessness have experienced a major depressive episode since becoming homeless and 36 percent of these mothers live with post-traumatic stress disorder and 41 percent have a substance use disorder.
(6) Ninety-three percent of supportive housing tenants who live with mental illness and substance use disorders voluntarily participated in the services offered.
(7) Adults who receive 2 years of “whatever-it-takes,” or Full Service Partnership services, experience a 68 percent reduction in homelessness.
(8) For every dollar of bond funds invested in permanent supportive housing, the state and local governments can leverage a significant amount of additional dollars through tax credits, Medicaid health services funding, and other housing development funds.
(9) Tenants of permanent supportive housing reduced their visits to the emergency department by 56 percent, and their hospital admissions by 45 percent.
(10) The cost in public services for a chronically homeless Californian ranges from $60,000 to $100,000 annually. When housed, these costs are cut in half and some reports show reductions in cost of more than 70 percent, including potentially less involvement with the health and criminal justice systems.
(11) Californians have identified homelessness as their top tier priority; this measure seeks to address the needs of the most vulnerable people within this population.
(12) Having counties provide mental health programming and services is a benefit to the state.
(13) The Department of Housing and Community Development is the state entity with sufficient expertise to implement and oversee a grant or loan program for permanent supportive housing of the target population.
(14) The California Health Facilities Financing Authority is authorized by law to issue bonds and to consult with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the State Department of Health Care Services concerning the implementation of a grant or loan program for California counties to support the development of programs that increase access to, and capacity for, crisis mental health services. It is therefore appropriate for the authority to issue bonds and contract for services with the Department of Housing and Community Development to provide grants or loans to California counties for permanent supportive housing for the target population.
(15) Use of bond funding will accelerate the availability of funding for the grant or loan program to provide permanent supportive housing for the target population as compared to relying on annual allocations from the Mental Health Services Fund and better allow counties to provide permanent supportive housing for homeless individuals living with mental illness.
(16) The findings and declarations set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 5849.35 are hereby incorporated herein.
SEC. 3.
Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Instiace Like Home Program Advisory Committee established pursuant to Section 5849.3.
(f) “County” includes, but is not limited to, a city and county, and a city receiving funds pursuant to Section 5701.5.
(g) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.
(h) “Development sponsor” has the same meaning as “sponsor” as defined in Section 50675.2 of the Health and Safety Code.
(i) “Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4.
(j) “Homeless” has the same meaning as defined in Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as that section read on May 1, 2016.
(k) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing,” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(l) “Program” means the process for awarding funds and distributing moneys to applicants established in Sections 5849.7, 5849.8, and 5849.9 and the ongoing monitoring and enforcement of the applicants’ activities pursuant to Sections 5849.8, 5849.9, and 5849.11.
(1) “Competitive program” means that portion of the program established by Section 5849.8.
(2) “Distribution program” means that portion of the program described in Section 5849.9.
(m) “Target population” means individuals or households as provided in Section 5600.3 who are homeless, chronically homeless, or at risk of chronic homelessness.
r1 score is: 
0.1333333333333333
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large pretrained using our method, finetuned on 100 CA examples can be seen below
target summary is: 
The California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 designates the State Air Resources Board as the state agency charged with monitoring and regulating sources of emissions of greenhouse gases. The act authorizes the state board to include the use of market-based compliance mechanisms. Existing law requires all
moneys, except for fines and penalties,
moneys
collected by the state board as part of a market-based compliance mechanism to be deposited in the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund and to be available upon appropriation. Existing law continuously appropriates specified portions of the annual proceeds in the fund to various programs, including 5% for the Low Carbon Transit Operations Program, which provides operating and capital assistance for transit agencies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve mobility, with a priority on serving disadvantaged communities.
This bill would additionally authorize moneys appropriated to the program to be expended to support the operation of existing bus or rail service if the governing board of the requesting transit agency declares a fiscal emergency and other criteria are met, thereby expanding the scope of an existing continuous appropriation.
produced summary is: 
Existing law requires all moneys, except for fines and penalties, collected by the State Air Resources Board from the auction or sale of allowances as part of a market-based compliance mechanism relative to reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to be deposited in the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund. Existing law continuously appropriates specified portions of the annual proceeds in the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund to various programs including 5% for the Low Carbon Transit Operations Program and 20% for the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund. This bill would establish the Low Carbon Transit Operations Program to provide operating and capital assistance for transit agencies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve mobility, with a priority on serving disadvantaged
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 75230 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
75230.
(a) The Low Carbon Transit Operations Program is hereby created to provide operating and capital assistance for transit agencies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve mobility, with a priority on serving disadvantaged communities.
(b) Funding for the program is continuously appropriated pursuant to Section 39719 of the Health and Safety Code from the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, established pursuant to Section 16428.8 of the Government Code.
(c) Funding shall be allocated by the Controller consistent with the requirements of this part and with Section 39719 of the Health and Safety Code, upon a determination by the Department of Transportation that the expenditures proposed by a transit agency meet the requirements of this part and guidelines developed pursuant to subdivision (f), and that the amount of funding requested is currently available.
(d) (1) Moneys for the program shall be expended to provide transit operating or capital assistance that meets all of the following criteria:
(A) Expenditures supporting new or expanded bus or rail services, new or expanded water-borne transit, or expanded intermodal transit facilities, and may include equipment acquisition, fueling, and maintenance, and other costs to operate those services or facilities.
(B) The recipient transit agency demonstrates that each expenditure directly enhances or expands transit service to increase mode share.
(C) The recipient transit agency demonstrates that each expenditure reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
(2) (A) Moneys for the program may additionally be expended to support the operation of existing bus or rail service if all of the following occur:
(i) The governing board of the transit agency declares a fiscal emergency, as defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 21080.32, within 90 days prior to the agency requesting the funds.
(ii) The expenditure of the requested funds is necessary to sustain the transit agency’s transit service in the fiscal year in which the requested funds are to be expended.
(iii) The governing board of the transit agency would be required to reduce or eliminate transit service if the requested funds are not received.
(iv) The governing board makes a finding that a reduction in, or elimination of, transit service would increase greenhouse gas emissions because transit customers would choose other less-efficient modes of transportation.
(v) The transit agency does not request funds over consecutive funding years unless the transit agency has declared a fiscal emergency in each year consistent with clause (i).
(vi) The transit agency does not request funds for more than three consecutive funding years.
(B) Moneys allocated for the purpose of this paragraph shall be expended to provide transit operating assistance that meets both of the following criteria:
(i) The expenditures support current bus- or rail-service operating costs and may include labor, fueling, maintenance, and other costs to operate and maintain those services.
(ii) The recipient transit agency demonstrates that each expenditure directly sustains transit service that would otherwise be reduced or eliminated in the upcoming year if those funds were not received.
(e) For transit agencies whose service areas include disadvantaged communities, as identified pursuant to Section 39711 of the Health and Safety Code, at least 50 percent of the total moneys received purs:
(1) A list of proposed expense types for anticipated funding levels.
(2) The documentation required by the guidelines developed pursuant to subdivision (f) to demonstrate compliance with subdivisions (d) and (e).
(i) Before authorizing the disbursement of funds, the Department of Transportation, in coordination with the State Air Resources Board, shall determine the eligibility, in whole or in part, of the proposed list of expense
types,
types
based on the documentation provided by the recipient transit agency to ensure ongoing compliance with the guidelines developed pursuant to subdivision (f).
(j) The Department of Transportation shall notify the Controller of approved expenditures for each transit agency and the amount of the allocation for each transit agency determined to be available at that time of approval.
(k) The recipient transit agency shall provide annual reports to the Department of Transportation, in the format and manner prescribed by the department, consistent with the internal administrative procedures for
the
use of
the
fund proceeds developed by the State Air Resources Board.
(l) The Department of Transportation and recipient transit agencies shall comply with the guidelines developed by the State Air Resources Board pursuant to Section 39715 of the Health and Safety Code to ensure that the requirements of Section 39713 of the Health and Safety Code are met to maximize the benefits to disadvantaged communities, as identified pursuant to Section 39711 of the Health and Safety Code.
r1 score is: 
0.6555183946488294
==================================
target summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. PEPRA exempts from its provisions certain public employees whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law until a specified federal district court decision on a certification by the United States Secretary of Labor, or until January 1, 2016, whichever is sooner.
This bill would extend indefinitely that exemption for those public employees, whose collective bargaining rights are subject to specified provisions of federal law and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
The bill would exempt these employees from PEPRA without regard to date of hire upon issuance of a specified federal district court decision.
produced summary is: 
The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan for employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013. Existing law, the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, generally authorizes 2 or more public agencies, by agreement, to jointly exercise any common power, which may include hiring employees and establishing retirement systems. PEPRA authorizes a joint powers authority formed by the Cities of Brea and Fullerton on or after January
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 7522.02 of the Government Code is amended to read:
7522.02.
(a) (1) Notwithstanding any other law, except as provided in this article, on and after January 1, 2013, this article shall apply to all state and local public retirement systems and to their participating employers, including the Public Employees’ Retirement System, the State Teachers’ Retirement System, the Legislators’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System, the Judges’ Retirement System II, county and district retirement systems created pursuant to the County Employees Retirement Law of 1937 (Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3), independent public retirement systems, and to individual retirement plans offered by public employers. However, this article shall be subject to the Internal Revenue Code and Section 17 of Article XVI of the California Constitution. The administration of the requirements of this article shall comply with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to the entities described in Section 9 of Article IX of, and Sections 4 and 5 of Article XI of, the California Constitution, except to the extent that these entities continue to be participating employers in any retirement system governed by state statute. Accordingly, any retirement plan approved before January 1, 2013, by the voters of any entity excluded from coverage by this section shall not be affected by this article.
(3)
(A)
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code and who became a member of a state or local public retirement system prior to December 30, 2014.
(B) If a federal district court upholds the determination of the United States Secretary of Labor, or his or her designee, that application of this article precludes him or her from providing a certification under Section 5333(b) of Title 49 of the United States Code, this article shall not apply to a public employee whose interests are protected under that section.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), this article shall not apply to a multiemployer plan authorized by Section 302(c)(5) of the federal Taft-Hartley Act (29 U.S.C. Sec. 186(c)(5)) if the public employer began participation in that plan prior to January 1, 2013, and the plan is regulated by the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 et seq.).
(b) The benefit plan required by this article shall apply to public employees who are new members as defined in Section 7522.04.
(c) (1) Individuals who were employed by any public employer before January 1, 2013, and who became employed by a subsequent public employer for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, shall be subject to the retirement plan that would have been available to employees of the subsequent employer who were first employed by the subsequent employer on or before December 31, 2012, if the individual was subject to concurrent membership for which creditable service was performed in the previous six months or reciprocity established under any of the following provisions:
(A) Article 5 (commencing with Section 20350) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2.
(B) Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 31450) of Part 3 of Division 4 of Title 3.
(C) Any agreement between public retirement systems to provide reciprocity to members of the systems.
(D) Section 22115.2 of the Education Code.
(2) An individual who was employed before January 1, 2013, and who, without a separation from employment, changed employment positions and became subject to a different defined benefit plan in a different public retirement system offered by his or her employer shall be subject to that defined benefit plan as it would have been available to employees who were first employed on or before December 31, 2012.
(d) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a defined benefit pension plan that provides a defined benefit formula with a lower benefit factor at normal retirement age and results in a lower normal cost than the defined benefit formula required by this article, that employer may continue to offer that defined benefit formula instead of the defined benefit formula required by this article, and shall not be subject to the requirements of Section 7522.10 for pensionable compensation subject to that formula. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the retirement board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the defined benefit plan may only participate in the lower cost defined benefit formula that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article or is approved by the Legislature as provided in this subdivision.
(e) If a public employer, before January 1, 2013, offers a retirement benefit plan that consists solely of a defined contribution plan, that employer may continue to offer that plan instead of the defined benefit pension plan required by this article. However, if the employer adopts a new defined benefit pension plan or defined benefit formula on or after January 1, 2013, that plan or formula must conform to the requirements of this article or must be determined and certified by the retirement system’s chief actuary and the system’s board to have no greater risk and no greater cost to the employer than the defined benefit formula required by this article and must be approved by the Legislature. New members of the employer’s plan may only participate in the defined contribution plan that was in place before January 1, 2013, or a defined contribution plan or defined benefit formula that conforms to the requirements of this article. This subdivision shall not be construed to prohibit an employer from offering a defined contribution plan on or after January 1, 2013, either with or without a defined benefit plan, whether or not the employer offered a defined contribution plan prior to that date.
(f) (1) If, on or after January 1, 2013, the Cities of Brea and Fullerton form a joint powers authority pursuant to the provisions of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act (Article 1 (commencing with Section 6500) of Chapter 5), that joint powers authority may provide employees the defined benefit plan or formula that those employees received from their respective employers prior to the exercise of a common power, to which the employee is associated, by the joint powers authority to any employee of the City of Brea, the City of Fullerton, or a city described in paragraph (2) who is not a new member and subsequently is employed by the joint powers authority within 180 days of the city providing for the exercise of a common power, to which the employee was associated, by the joint powers authority.
(2) On or before January 1, 2017, a city in Orange County that is contiguous to the City of Brea or the City of Fullerton may join the joint powers authority described in paragraph (1) but not more than three cities shall be permitted to join.
(3) The formation of a joint powers authority on or after January 1, 2013, shall not act in a manner as to exempt a new employee or a new member, as defined by Section 7522.04, from the requirements of this article. New members may only participate in a defined benefit plan or formula that conforms to the requirements of this article.
(g) The Judges’ Retirement System and the Judges’ Retirement System II shall not be required to adopt the defined benefit formula required by Section 7522.20 or 7522.25 or the compensation limitations defined in Section 7522.10.
(h) This article shall not be construed to provide membership in any public retirement system for an individual who would not otherwise be eligible for membership under that system’s applicable rules or laws.
(i) On and after January 1, 2013, each public retirement system shall modify its plan or plans to comply with the requirements of this article and may adopt regulations or resolutions for this purpose.
r1 score is: 
0.5693950177935944
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes a process for the enforcement of money judgments, and authorizes a registered process server to levy under a writ of attachment or writ of execution on specified types of property. Existing law requires the registered process server, before levying under the writ, to deposit a copy of the writ with the levying officer and pay a specified fee. Existing law also permits a registered process server to serve an earnings withholding order on an employer and requires that the process server deposit specified documents with the levying officer and pay a specified fee.
This bill would provide that the registered process server is authorized to have the required documents and fee delivered to the levying officer by someone other than the process server himself or herself.
produced summary is: 
Existing law authorizes a registered process server to levy under a writ of attachment on real property, as provided, and other property, as provided, except as specified. Existing law requires the registered process server to cause to be deposited with the levying officer a copy of the writ and the fee, as provided. This bill would authorize a registered process server to levy under a writ of attachment on personal property, as provided, and other property, as provided, except as specified. The bill would also authorize the registered process server to post, and serve on other persons, a copy of the writ and the fee, if the registered process server
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 488.080 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
488.080.
(a) A registered process server may levy under a writ of attachment on the following types of property:
(1) Real property, pursuant to Section 488.315.
(2) Growing crops, timber to be cut, or minerals or the like, including oil and gas, to be extracted or accounts receivable resulting from the sale thereof at the wellhead or minehead, pursuant to Section 488.325.
(3) Personal property in the custody of a levying officer, pursuant to Section 488.355.
(4) Equipment of a going business, pursuant to Section 488.375.
(5) Motor vehicles, vessels, mobilehomes, or commercial coaches used as equipment of a going business, pursuant to Section 488.385.
(6) Farm products or inventory of a going business, pursuant to Section 488.405.
(7) Personal property used as a dwelling, pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 700.080.
(8) Deposit accounts, pursuant to Section 488.455.
(9) Property in a safe-deposit box, pursuant to Section 488.460.
(10) Accounts receivable or general intangibles, pursuant to Section 488.470.
(11) Final money judgments, pursuant to Section 488.480.
(12) Interest of a defendant in personal property in the estate of a decedent, pursuant to Section 488.485.
(b) Before levying under the writ of attachment, the registered process server shall cause to be deposited with the levying officer a copy of the writ and the fee, as provided by Section 26721 of the Government Code.
(c) If a registered process server levies on property pursuant to subdivision (a), the registered process server shall do both of the following:
(1) Comply with the applicable levy, posting, and service provisions of Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300).
(2) Request any third person served to give a garnishee’s memorandum to the levying officer in compliance with Section 488.610 on a form provided by the registered process server.
(d) Within five court days after levy under this section, all of the following shall be filed with the levying officer:
(1) The writ of attachment.
(2) A proof of service by the registered process server stating the manner of levy performed.
(3) Proof of service of the copy of the writ and notice of attachment on other persons, as required by Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300).
(4) Instructions in writing, as required by the provisions of Section 488.030.
(e) If the fee provided by Section 26721 of the Government Code has been paid, the levying officer shall perform all other duties under the writ as if the levying officer had levied under the writ and shall return the writ to the court. If the registered process server does not comply with subdivisions (b) and (d), the levy is ineffective and the levying officer shall not be required to perform any duties under the writ, and may issue a release for any property sought to be attached. The levying officer is not liable for actions taken in conformance with the provisions of this title in reliance on information provided to the levying officer under subdivision (d), except to the extent that the levying officer has actual knowledge that the information is incorrect. Nothing in this subdivision limits any liability the plaintiff or registered process server may have if the levying officer acts on the basis of incorrect information provided under subdivision (d).
(f) The fee for services of a registered process server under this section is a recoverable cost pursuant to Section 1033.5.
SEC. 2.
Section 699.080 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
699.080.
(a) A registered process server may levy under a writ of execution on the following types of property:
(1) Real property, pursuant to Section 700.015.
(2) Growing crops, timber to be cut, or minerals or the like including oil and gas, to be extracted or accounts receivable resulting from the sale thereof at the wellhead or minehead, pursuant to Section 700.020.
(3) Personal property in the custody of a levying officer, pursuant to Section 700.050.
(4) Personal property used as a dwelling, pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 700.080.
(5) Deposit accounts, pursuant to Section 700.140.
(6) Property in a safe-deposit box, pursuant to Section 700.150.
(7) Accounts receivable or general intangibles, pursuant to Section 700.170.
(8) Final money judgments, pursuant to Section 700.190.
(9) Interest of a judgment debtor in personal property in the estate of a decedent, pursuant to Section 700.200.
(b) Before levying under the writ of execution, the registered process server shall cause to be deposited with the levying officer a copy of the writ and the fee, as provided by Section 26721 of the Government Code.
(c) If a registered process server levies on property pursuant to subdivision (a), the registered process server shall do both of the following:
(1) Comply with the applicable levy, posting, and service provisions of Article 4 (commencing with Section 700.010).
(2) Request any third person served to give a garnishee’s memorandum to the levying officer in compliance with Section 701.030 on a form provided by the registered process server.
(d) Within five court days after levy under this section, all of the following shall be filed with the levying officer:
(1) The writ of execution.
(2) A proof of service by the registered process server stating the manner of levy performed.
(3) Proof of service of the copy of the writ and notice of levy on other persons, as required by Article 4 (commencing with Section 700.010).
(4) Instructions in writing, as required by the provisions of Section 687.010.
(e) If the fee provided by Section 26721 of the Government Code has been paid, the levying officer shall perform all other duties under the writ as if the levying officer had levied under the writ and shall return the writ to the court. If the registered process server does not comply with subdivisions (b) and (d), the levy is ineffective and the levying officer shall not be required to perform any duties under the writ, and may issue a release for any property sought to be levied upon.
(f) The fee for services of a registered process server under this section is a recoverable cost pursuant to Section 1033.5.
(g) A registered process server may levy more than once under the same writ of execution, provided that the writ is still valid.
SEC. 3.
Section 706.108 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
706.108.
(a) If a writ of execution has been issued to the county where the judgment debtor’s employer is to be served and the time specified in subdivision (b) of Section 699.530 for levy on property under the writ has not expired, a judgment creditor may deliver an application for issuance of an earnings withholding order to a registered process server who may then issue an earnings withholding order.
(b) If the registered process server has issued the earnings withholding order, the registered process server, before serving the earnings withholding order, shall cause to be deposited with the levying officer a copy of the writ of execution, the application for issuance of an earnings withholding order, a copy of the earnings withholding order, and the fee, as provided by Section 26750 of the Government Code.
(c) A registered process server may serve an earnings withholding order on an employer whether the earnings withholding order was issued by a levying officer or by a registered process server, but no earnings withholding order may be served after the time specified in subdivision (b) of Section 699.530. In performing this function, the registered process server shall serve upon the designated employer all of the following:
(1) The original and one copy of the earnings withholding order.
(2) The form for the employer’s return.
(3) The notice to the employee of the earnings withholding order.
(4) A copy of the form that the judgment debtor may use to make a claim of exemption.
(5) A copy of the form the judgment debtor may use to provide a financial statement.
(6) A copy of the employer’s instructions referred to in Section 706.127, except as otherwise prescribed in rules adopted by the Judicial Council.
(d) Within five court days after service under this section, all of the following shall be filed with the levying officer:
(1) The writ of execution, if it is not already in the hands of the levying officer.
(2) Proof of service on the employer of the papers listed in subdivision (c).
(3) Instructions in writing, as required by the provisions of Section 687.010.
(e) If the fee provided by Section 26750 of the Government Code has been paid, the levying officer shall perform all other duties required by this chapter as if the levying officer had served the earnings withholding order. If the registered process server does not comply with subdivisions (b), where applicable, and (d), the service of the earnings withholding order is ineffective and the levying officer shall not be required to perform any duties under the order, and may terminate the order and release any withheld earnings to the judgment debtor.
(f) The fee for services of a registered process server under this section is a recoverable cost pursuant to Section 1033.5.
r1 score is: 
0.6527196652719665
==================================
