Common good summaries
==================================target summary: Existing law makes it the duty of a coroner to inquire into and determine the circumstances, manner, and cause of deaths under prescribed conditions, including deaths under such circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground to suspect that the death was caused by the criminal act of another. Existing law provides for the execution of a certificate of religious belief stating that postmortem anatomical dissection or specified procedures would violate the religious convictions of the person, and, except as specified, prohibits a coroner from performing the procedure. Existing law requires a postmortem examination or autopsy to include certain procedures, including, among others, taking available fingerprints and palm prints and a dental examination including dental charts and dental X-rays, as specified. Existing law authorizes the postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains to include full body X-rays.
This bill, except as specified, would authorize a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency required to perform an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions to use an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, to fulfill specified postmortem examination or autopsy requirements. The bill would prohibit a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing an autopsy in a death under those prescribed conditions from using an electronic image system to conduct the autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would require a dissection autopsy to be performed to determine the cause and manner of death if the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would allow an autopsy to be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system without regard to the existence of a properly-executed certificate of religious belief.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 27521 of the Government Code is amended to read:
27521.
(a) A postmortem examination or autopsy conducted at the discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency upon an unidentified body or human remains is subject to this section.
(b) A postmortem examination or autopsy shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following procedures:
(1) Taking of all available fingerprints and palm prints.
(2) A dental examination consisting of dental charts and dental X-rays of the deceased person’s teeth, which may be conducted on the body or human remains by a qualified dentist as determined by the coroner.
(3) The collection of tissue, including a hair sample, or body fluid samples for future DNA testing, if necessary.
(4) Frontal and lateral facial photographs with the scale indicated.
(5) Notation and photographs, with a scale, of significant scars, marks, tattoos, clothing items, or other personal effects found with or near the body.
(6) Notations of observations pertinent to the estimation of the time of death.
(7) Precise documentation of the location of the remains.
(c) The postmortem examination or autopsy of the unidentified body or remains may include full body X-rays.
(d) (1) At the sole and exclusive discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491, an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, may be used to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b) or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520.
(2) Nothing in this subdivision imposes a duty upon any coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing autopsies pursuant to Section 27491 to use an electronic image system to perform autopsies or to acquire the capability to do so.
(3) A coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491 shall not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. If the results of an autopsy performed using electronic imaging provides the basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law, then a dissection autopsy shall be performed in order to determine the cause and manner of death.
(4) An autopsy may be conducted using an X-ray computed tomography scanning system notwithstanding the existence of a certificate of religious belief properly executed in accordance with Section 27491.43.
(e) The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy shall prepare a final report of investigation in a format established by the Department of Justice. The final report shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b).
(f) The body of an unidentified deceased person shall not be cremated or buried until the jaws (maxilla and mandible with teeth), or other bone sample if the jaws are not available, and other tissue samples are retained for future possible use. Unless the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy has determined that the body of the unidentified deceased person has suffered significant deterioration or decomposition, the jaws shall not be removed until immediately before the body is cremated or buried. The coroner, medical examiner, or other agency responsible for a postmortem examination or autopsy shall retain the jaws and other tissue samples for one year after a positive identification is made, and no civil or criminal challenges are pending, or indefinitely.
(g) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and any other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit dental charts and dental X-rays of the unidentified deceased person to the Department of Justice on forms supplied by the Department of Justice within 45 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered.
(h) If the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency performing a postmortem examination or autopsy with the aid of the dental examination and other identifying findings is unable to establish the identity of the body or human remains, the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency shall submit the final report of investigation to the Department of Justice within 180 days of the date the body or human remains were discovered. The final report of investigation shall list or describe the information collected pursuant to the postmortem examination or autopsy conducted under subdivision (b), and any anthropology report, fingerprints, photographs, and autopsy report.
peg squared summary: Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to perform certain procedures, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b) or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520. Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. Existing law requires the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to not use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another, and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. This bill would instead require the coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to use an electronic image system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford
pigasus summary: The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that a postmortem examination or autopsy performed at the sole and exclusive discretion of a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491, an electronic image system, including, but not limited to, an X-ray computed tomography scanning system, may be used to fulfill the requirements of subdivision (b), or of a postmortem examination or autopsy required by other law, including but not limited to, Section 27520. The bill would prohibit a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy pursuant to Section 27491 from using an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the criminal act of another and it is necessary to collect evidence for presentation in a court of law. The bill would authorize a coroner, medical examiner, or other agency tasked with performing an autopsy to use an electronic imaging system to conduct an autopsy in any investigation where the circumstances surrounding the death afford a reasonable basis to suspect that the death was caused by or related to the
==================================target summary: Existing law authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons including, among others, those authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, or a certification for livestock stockpond use.
This bill would restrict the state board’s authorization to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a registration or certification to uses that are year-round.
Existing law requires a person who diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license to install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage, as specified, and with certain exceptions.
This bill would delay those requirements for 2 years.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1841 of the Water Code is amended to read:
1841.
(a) The board may adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by either of the following:
(1) Persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use,
if the registered use is year-round,
or certification for livestock stockpond
use.
use, if the certified use is year-round.
(2) Persons required to comply with measurement and reporting regulations pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 5103.
(b) The initial regulations that the board adopts pursuant to this section shall be adopted as emergency regulations in accordance with Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The adoption of the initial regulations is an emergency and shall be considered by the Office of Administrative Law as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare. Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, any emergency regulations adopted under this section shall remain in effect until revised by the board.
(c) The adoption of the initial regulations pursuant to this article is exempt from Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code.
SECTION 1.
Section 1840 of the
Water Code
is amended to read:
1840.
(a)(1)Except as provided in subdivision (b), a person who, on or after January 1, 2018, diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license shall install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage. The measurements shall be made using the best available technologies and best professional practices, as defined in Section 5100, using a device or methods satisfactory to the board, as follows:
(A)A device shall be capable of continuous monitoring of the rate and quantity of water diverted and shall be properly maintained. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence that the device has been installed with the first report submitted after installation of the device. The permittee or licensee shall provide the board with evidence demonstrating that the device is functioning properly as part of the reports submitted at five-year intervals after the report documenting installation of the device, or upon request of the board.
(B)In developing regulations pursuant to Section 1841, the board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurement of the total amount diverted and the rate of diversion. The board shall consider devices and methods that provide accurate measurements within an acceptable range of error, including the following:
(i)Electricity records dedicated to a pump and recent pump test.
(ii)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable streamflow rating curve.
(iii)Staff gage calibrated for a flume or weir.
(iv)Staff gage calibrated with an acceptable storage capacity curve.
(v)Pressure transducer and acceptable storage capacity curve.
(2)The permittee or licensee shall maintain a record of all diversion monitoring that includes the date, time, and diversion rate at time intervals of one hour or less, and the total amount of water diverted. These records shall be included with reports submitted under the permit or license, as required under subdivision (c), or upon request of the board.
(b)(1)The board may modify the requirements of subdivision (a) upon finding either of the following:
(A)That strict compliance is infeasible, is unreasonably expensive, would unreasonably affect public trust uses, or would result in the waste or unreasonable use of water.
(B)That the need for monitoring and reporting is adequately addressed by other conditions of the permit or license.
(2)The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold of subdivision (a) in a watershed or subwatershed, after considering the diversion reporting threshold in relation to quantity of water within the watershed or subwatershed. The board may increase the 10-acre-foot reporting threshold to 25 acre-feet or more if it finds that the benefits of the additional information within the watershed or subwatershed are substantially outweighed by the cost of installing measuring devices or employing methods for measurement for diversions at the 10-acre-foot threshold.
(c)At least annually, a person who diverts water under a registration, permit, or license shall report to the board the following information:
(1)The quantity of water diverted by month.
(2)The maximum rate of diversion by months in the preceding calendar year.
(3)The information required by subdivision (a), if applicable.
(d)Compliance with the applicable requirements of this section is a condition of every registration, permit, or license.
peg squared summary: Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. This bill would instead require the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, or livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use.
pigasus summary: (1)Existing law requires the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, and livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. Existing law requires the initial regulations to be adopted as emergency regulations and to be considered by the Office of Administrative Law as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare. This bill would adopt emergency regulations requiring the board to adopt regulations requiring measurement and reporting of water diversion and use by persons authorized to appropriate water under a permit, license, registration for small domestic, small irrigation, and livestock stockpond use, if the registered use is year-round, or certification for livestock stockpond use. The initial regulations would require the board to adopt regulations requiring a person who, on or after January 1, 2018, diverts 10 acre-feet of water per year or more under a permit or license to install and maintain a device or employ a method capable of measuring the rate of direct diversion, rate of collection to storage, and rate of withdrawal or release from storage, as specified. The initial regulations would require the board to consider
==================================target summary: Existing law requires local educational agencies to actively and systematically seek out all individuals with exceptional needs, from birth to 21 years of age, inclusive, including children not enrolled in public school programs, who reside in a school district or are under the jurisdiction of a special education local plan area or a county office of education.
This bill would require the State Department of Education, on or before July 1, 2018, to develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners, as specified, with the goal of providing guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of those pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils. The bill would require the department to post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site. In developing the manual, the bill would require the department to review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government, and to establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of specified experts and practitioners. As part of implementing these provisions, the bill would require the department, with input from the stakeholder group, to develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual, as specified, but would condition the actual implementation of the plan on an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute. The bill would require the department to submit the plan to the State Board of Education, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018. The bill would state the intent of the Legislature that its provisions be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
(a) There are approximately 1.4 million English learners in California public schools, representing 22 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these English learners are also pupils who qualify for special education services.
(b) There are approximately 734,000 pupils with disabilities in California public schools, representing 12 percent of the state’s enrollment. Some of these pupils with disabilities are also English learners.
(c) The accurate identification of English learners who qualify for special education services, the classification of pupils with disabilities as English learners, and the determination of appropriate services for these pupils is in the interest of pupils, families, educators, local educational agencies, and the state.
(d) The identification, assessment, support, reclassification, and special education exit of these pupils involve complex and interrelated processes, and educators would benefit from state guidance on how best to identify these pupils.
(e) Educators would also benefit from state guidance about how to support the learning needs of these pupils.
(f) Other states have provided their educators with such guidance through manuals on the topic of English learners and special education. The federal government recommends that states develop guidance for educators on this topic.
(g) California, which enrolls one in every three English learners in the country, and 35 percent of all English learners who receive special education services in the United States, should provide such guidance for its educators in the form of a manual and professional development on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying these pupils.
SEC. 2.
Section 56305 is added to the Education Code, to read:
56305.
(a) On or before July 1, 2018, the department shall develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners.
(b) The goal of the manual shall be to provide guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils.
(c) In developing the manual, the department shall do both of the following:
(1) Review manuals and other resources produced on this topic by local educational agencies, special education administrators, other organizations, other states, and the federal government.
(2) Establish and consult with a stakeholder group comprised of experts and practitioners. These individuals shall have expertise or experience in either special education, English learner education, or in both.
(d) The manual shall include all of the following topics:
(1) Guidance for accurately identifying English learners who may have disabilities and accurately classifying pupils with disabilities as English learners, including guidance on avoiding overidentification and underidentification of these pupils for special education services and in different disability categories and in different grade spans.
(2) Information on second language acquisition and progress, including guidance on distinguishing between language acquisition and disabilities.
(3) Examples of prereferral strategies, early interventions, and early intervening strategies specifically addressing the needs of English learners, including examples of early interventions for pupils in preschool and the primary grades who are acquiring foundational language and literacy skills.
(4) Guidance on referral processes.
(5) Guidance on the use of assessments, including the use of multiple measures as well as assessment accommodations for both language and disability, including assessment accommodations in primary languages.
(6) Guidance on the consideration of extrinsic factors, such as vision, hearing, and health, in the identification of pupils.
(7) Guidance on the development of individualized education programs for English learners, including the composition of individualized education program teams.
(8) Guidance on how to support the language and content learning needs of English learners who may have disabilities, including how to do so in the least restrictive environment, as described in Section 56040.1, and in a manner that enables access to the core curriculum.
(9) Guidance regarding placement or continued placement in bilingual programs and on providing services and instruction in primary languages.
(10) Guidance on special education exit and English learner reclassification processes for English learners with disabilities.
(11) Information on the role of culture and acculturation, to the extent it is related to the process of identifying English learners for special education services.
(12) Guidance for working with families, including guidance on meeting the needs of nonnative English speaking parents, guardians, and educational rights holders in special education proceedings.
(13) Examples of any plans or processes used by local educational agencies for continuous evaluation and systemic review and guidance on sharing information between special education and English learner programs within local educational agencies for the purpose of tracking effectiveness, to the extent permitted under state and federal law regarding the privacy of pupil information.
(14) State and federal law, regulations, and guidance related to the rights of English learners and pupils with disabilities.
(e) All guidance in the manual shall be consistent with state and federal law, regulations, and guidance regarding English learners and special education.
(f) The manual shall be written for ease of use by educators. The department is encouraged to incorporate features such as flowcharts, checklists, sample forms, and case examples.
(g) The department shall post the manual on its Internet Web site and on its professional development Internet Web site.
(h) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “English learners” includes pupils who have been classified as English learners and those who may later be classified as English learners.
(2) “Pupils with disabilities” includes pupils who have been or may later be identified as individuals with exceptional needs, as defined in Section 56026, including pupils who have been or may later be identified as having a low incidence disability, as defined in Section 56026.5, or a severe disability, as defined in Section 56030.5, and also includes pupils with disabilities who may be later classified as English learners.
(i) (1) (A) In implementing this section, the department, with input from the stakeholder group, shall develop a plan for the dissemination of the manual and the means of providing professional development on the content of the manual. The plan shall address how the state and local educational agencies can collaborate in meeting both of these objectives in a cost-effective manner.
(B) Implementation of the plan developed pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be contingent upon an appropriation for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or another enacted statute.
(2) The plan shall be submitted to the state board, the Department of Finance, the Legislative Analyst’s Office, the California Collaborative for Educational Excellence, the Advisory Commission on Special Education, and the appropriate policy and fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before July 1, 2018.
(j) It is the intent of the Legislature that this section be funded with federal funds, to the extent permissible.
peg squared summary: Existing law requires all pupils who qualify for special education services, including those who receive special education services, to be treated as English learners. This bill would require the department to develop a manual providing guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners. The bill would require the manual to provide guidance, for voluntary use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils, and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils.
pigasus summary: (1) Existing law establishes a system of public elementary and secondary education in this state, and authorizes local educational agencies throughout the state to provide instruction to pupils. This bill would require the State Department of Education to develop a manual, on or before July 1, 2018, to provide guidance to local educational agencies on identifying, assessing, supporting, and reclassifying English learners who may qualify for special education services and pupils with disabilities who may be classified as English learners. The bill would establish specific goals and objectives for the manual, including, among other things, to provide guidance, for use by local educational agencies, charter schools, and the state special schools, on evidence-based and promising practices for the identification, assessment, support, and reclassification of these pupils, and to promote a collaborative approach among general education teachers, special education teachers, school administrators, paraprofessionals, other involved personnel, and parents in determining the most appropriate academic placements and services for these pupils. The bill would also require the department to consult with and consult with experts in the fields of early childhood development, special education, and language and literacy development, as specified. The bill would establish a system of public elementary and secondary education in this state, and authorizes local educational agencies throughout the state to provide instruction to pupils.
==================================target summary: The Personal Income Tax Law and the Corporation Tax Law allow various credits against the taxes imposed by those laws.
This bill, for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
would allow a credit under those laws to an employer who pays a qualified employee a wage equal to or exceeding the state minimum wage during the taxable year, as provided. The bill would define a qualified employee as an individual with a disability who may be paid a special minimum wage under existing state or federal law. The credit would be allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the hours worked by the qualified employee.
The bill would require the Franchise Tax Board to submit a report containing specified data relating to these credits to the Legislature by June 1, 2022.
This bill would take effect immediately as a tax levy.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 17053.75 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
17053.75.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “net tax,” as defined by Section 17039, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified employer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 23675 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001). For purposes of this section, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership or “S” Corporation.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the net “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 23675.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 23675 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 23675 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:
23675.
(a) For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017,
and before January 1, 2022,
there shall be allowed a credit against the “tax,” as defined by Section 23036, to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year.
(b) The credit shall be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Minimum wage” means the wage established by the Industrial Welfare Commission as provided for in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
(2) “Qualified employee” means an individual who may be paid a special minimum wage pursuant to Section 214(c) of Title 29 of the United States Code or Section 1191 or 1191.5 of the Labor
Code.
Code that is subject to withholding pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(3) (A) “Qualified employer” means a taxpayer that employs a qualified employee in this state.
(B) In the case of any pass-thru entity, the determination of whether a taxpayer is a qualified taxpayer under this section shall be made at the entity level, and any credit under this section or Section 17053.75 shall be allowed to the pass-thru entity and passed through to the partners in accordance with applicable provisions of this part or Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001). For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “pass-thru entity” means any partnership.
(d) A qualified employer shall do both of the following:
(1) Obtain from the Industrial Welfare Commission a certification that a qualified employee meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). The certification shall include the dollar amount of special minimum wage applicable to each qualified employee.
(2) Retain the certification and provide a copy of it upon request to the Franchise Tax Board.
(e) The Franchise Tax Board may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code does not apply to any standard, criterion, procedure, determination, rule, notice, or guideline established or issued by the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to this section.
(f) In the case where any credit allowed by this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until this section is repealed.
(g) On or before June 1, 2022, the Franchise Tax Board shall submit a report to the Legislature in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code that contains the following:
(1) The number of Californians with developmental disabilities employed during each year of the operative period of this section and Section 17053.75.
(2) The number of employers who used and applied for a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 each year.
(3) The number of employees for whom a credit authorized by this section and Section 17053.75 was claimed.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until December 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 3.
It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to comply with the requirements of Section
41.
41 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
SEC. 4.
This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of Article IV of the
California
Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
peg squared summary: Existing law allows a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a credit to a qualified employer who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year if the credit is allowed in an amount equal to the difference between the special minimum wage that may be paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the
pigasus summary: The Personal Income Tax Law allows various credits against the taxes imposed by that law, including certain credits that are allowed in modified conformity to credits allowed by federal income tax laws. This bill, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, and before January 1, 2022, would allow a credit to a qualified employer, as defined, to a qualified employee who pays a qualified employee a wage that equals or exceeds the state minimum wage during the taxable year. The bill would provide that the credit would be in an amount that is equal to the difference between the credit paid to the qualified employee and the state minimum wage, multiplied by the number of hours worked by the qualified employee for the qualified employer during the taxable year. This bill would allow a qualified employer to pass the credit to the qualified employee through to the partners or shareholders in accordance with applicable provisions of the Personal Income Tax Law.
