Common bad summaries
==================================target summary: Existing law provides for the administration and operation of juvenile court schools by the county board of education.
This bill would express the Legislature’s intent that juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study that prepares pupils for high school graduation and career entry and fulfills the requirements for admission to the California State University and the University of California.
Existing law prescribes the course of study a pupil is required to complete while in grades 9 to 12, inclusive, in order to receive a diploma of graduation, and authorizes the governing board of a school district to prescribe other coursework requirements that are in addition to the statewide requirements. Existing law exempts pupils in foster care and pupils who are homeless children or youths from local graduation requirements and also requires a school district and county office of education to accept coursework satisfactorily completed by those pupils while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school.
This bill would make that exemption and requirement to accept coursework satisfactorily completed applicable to former juvenile court school pupils, as defined. The bill would also require a county office of education to issue a diploma of graduation to a pupil who completes statewide coursework requirements for graduation while attending a juvenile court school but does not complete coursework and other requirements that are in addition to the statewide graduation requirements. By placing additional requirements on school districts and county offices of education, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain cidden">
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 48645.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.3.
(a) Juvenile court schools shall be conducted in a manner as shall be prescribed by the county board of education to best accomplish the provisions of Section 48645. The minimum schoolday shall be 240 minutes. Minimum schooldays shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The minimum schoolday for pupils in attendance in approved vocational education programs, work programs prescribed by the probation department pursuant to Section 883 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and work experience programs shall be 180 minutes, which shall be calculated on the basis of the average number of minutes of attendance during not more than 10 consecutive days in which classes are conducted. The county board of education shall adopt and enforce a course of study and evaluate its program in accordance with Sections 51040, 51041, 51050, and 51054 and the provisions of Article 3 (commencing with Section 51220) of Chapter 2 of Part 28, except subdivision (c) of Section 51220.
(b) Juvenile court schools shall not be closed on any weekday of the calendar year, except those weekdays adopted by the county board of education as school holidays or set aside by the county board of education for inservice purposes. However, the county board of education may close juvenile court schools when it deems the closing is necessary to accommodate contingencies.
(c) (1) The county board of education may adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
(2) The enhanced course of study adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall meet the standards adopted pursuant to Section 60605.8, as appropriate, and shall be tailored to meet the needs of the individual pupil to increase the pupil’s academic literacy and reading fluency.
(d) It is the intent of the Legislature that pupils in juvenile court schools have a rigorous curriculum that includes a course of study preparing them for high school graduation and career entry and fulfilling the requirements for admission to the University of California and the California State University.
SEC. 2.
Section 48645.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
48645.5.
(a) Each public school district and county office of education shall accept for credit full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil while attending a public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. The coursework shall be transferred by means of the standard state transcript. If a pupil completes the graduation requirements of his or her school district of residence while being detained, the school district of residence shall issue to the pupil a diploma from the school the pupil last attended before detention or, in the alternative, the county superintendent of schools may issue the diploma.
(b) A pupil shall not be denied enrollment or readmission to a public school solely on the basis that he or she has had contact with the juvenile justice system, including, but not limited to:
(1) Arrest.
(2) Adjudication by a juvenile court.
(3) Formal or informal supervision by a probation officer.
(4) Detention for any length of time in a juvenile facility or enrollment in a juvenile court school.
(c) Pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (f) of Section 48853.5, a pupil who has had contact with the juvenile justice system shall be immediately enrolled in a public school.
(d) If a pupil completes the statewide coursework requirements for graduation specified in Section 51225.3 while attending a juvenile court school, the county office of education shall issue to the pupil a diploma of graduation and shall not require the pupil to complete coursework or other requirements that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements.
SEC. 3.
Section 51225.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.1.
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district shall exempt a pupil in foster care, as defined in Section 51225.2, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, as defined in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code, or a former juvenile court school pupil, as defined in Section 51225.2, who transfers between schools any time after the completion of the pupil’s second year of high school from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the governing board of the school district that are in addition to the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3, unless the school district makes a finding that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements in time to graduate from high school by the end of the pupil’s fourth year of high school.
(b) If the school district determines that the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil is reasonably able to complete the school district’s graduation requirements within the pupil’s fifth year of high school, the school district shall do all of the following:
(1) Inform the pupil of his or her option to remain in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements.
(2) Inform the pupil, and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, about how remaining in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution.
(3) Provide information to the pupil about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(4) Permit the pupil to stay in school for a fifth year to complete the school district’s graduation requirements upon agreement with the pupil, if the pupil is 18 years of age or older, or, if the pupil is under 18 years of age, upon agreement with the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil.
(c) To determine whether a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is in the third or fourth year of high school, either the number of credits the pupil has earned to the date of transfer or the length of the pupil’s school enrollment may be used, whichever will qualify the pupil for the exemption.
(d) (1) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil in foster care who may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a pupil who is a homeless child or youth may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) (A) Within 30 calendar days of the date that a former juvenile court school pupil may qualify for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section transfers into a school, the school district shall notify the pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, and the pupil’s social worker or probation officer of the availability of the exemption and whether the pupil qualifies for an exemption.
(B) If the school district fails to provide timely notice pursuant to subparagraph (A), the pupil described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section once notified, even if that notification occurs after termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil, if the pupil otherwise qualifies for the exemption pursuant to this section.
(e) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and completes the statewide coursework requirements specified in Section 51225.3 before the end of his or her fourth year of high school and that pupil would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school, a school or school district shall not require or request that the pupil graduate before the end of his or her fourth year of high school.
(f) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the school district shall notify the pupil and the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil how any of the requirements that are waived will affect the pupil’s ability to gain admission to a postsecondary educational institution and shall provide information about transfer opportunities available through the California Community Colleges.
(g) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil who is eligible for the exemption from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section and would otherwise be entitled to remain in attendance at the school shall not be required to accept the exemption or be denied enrollment in, or the ability to complete, courses for which he or she is otherwise eligible, including courses necessary to attend an institution of higher education, regardless of whether those courses are required for statewide graduation requirements.
(h) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is not exempted from local graduation requirements or has previously declined the exemption pursuant to this section, a school district shall exempt the pupil at any time if an exemption is requested by the pupil and the pupil qualifies for the exemption.
(i) If a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, a school district shall not revoke the exemption.
(j) (1) If a pupil in foster care is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(2) If a pupil who is a homeless child or youth is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the pupil is no longer a homeless child or youth while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(3) If a former juvenile court school pupil is exempted from local graduation requirements pursuant to this section, the exemption shall continue to apply after the termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the pupil while he or she is enrolled in school or if the pupil transfers to another school or school district.
(k) A school district shall not require or request a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to transfer schools in order to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(l) (1) A pupil in foster care, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(2) A pupil who is a homeless child or youth, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, or the local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youth designated pursuant to Section 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii) of Title 42 of the United States Code, shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(3) A former juvenile court school pupil, the person holding the right to make educational decisions for the pupil, the pupil’s social worker, or the pupil’s probation officer shall not request a transfer solely to qualify the pupil for an exemption pursuant to this section.
(m) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 4.
Section 51225.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
51225.2.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Pupil in foster care” means a child who has been removed from his or her home pursuant to Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or has been removed from his or her home and is the subject of a petition filed under Section 300 or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “Pupil who is a homeless child or youth” means a pupil who meets the definition of “homeless child or youth” in Section 11434a(2) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
(3) “Former juvenile court school pupil” means a pupil who, upon completion of the pupil’s second year of high school, transfers to a school district, excluding a school district operated by the Division of Juvenile Justice of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, from a juvenile court school.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, a school district and county office of education shall accept coursework satisfactorily completed by a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil while attending another public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency even if the pupil did not complete the entire course and shall issue that pupil full or partial credit for the coursework completed.
(c) The credits accepted pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be applied to the same or equivalent course, if applicable, as the coursework completed in the prior public school, juvenile court school, or nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency.
(d) A school district or county office of education shall not require a pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil to retake a course if the pupil has satisfactorily completed the entire course in a public school, a juvenile court school, or a nonpublic, nonsectarian school or agency. If the pupil did not complete the entire course, the school district or county office of education shall not require the pupil to retake the portion of the course the pupil completed unless the school district or county office of education, in consultation with the holder of educational rights for the pupil, finds that the pupil is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate from high school. When partial credit is awarded in a particular course, the pupil in foster care, the pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or the former juvenile court school pupil shall be enrolled in the same or equivalent course, if applicable, so that the pupil may continue and complete the entire course.
(e) A pupil in foster care, a pupil who is a homeless child or youth, or a former juvenile court school pupil shall not be prevented from retaking or taking a course to meet the eligibility requirements for admission to the California State University or the University of California.
(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
(2) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.
(3) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.
(4) Information regarding the requirements of this section shall be included in the annual notification distributed to, among others, pupils, parents or guardians of pupils, employees, and other interested parties pursuant to Section 4622 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.
SEC. 5.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
peg squared summary: Existing law requires the county board of education to adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools. This bill would instead require the county board of education to adopt and enforce a course of study that enhances instruction in mathematics and English language arts for pupils attending juvenile court schools, as determined by statewide assessments or objective local evaluations and assessments as approved by the county superintendent of schools.
pigasus summary: The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
==================================target summary: Existing law prescribes definitions and requirements for certain civil actions relating to construction defect litigation and limits claims to violations of specified standards.
This bill would make a nonsubstantive change to these provisions.
bill text: The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 896 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
896.
In
any
an
action seeking recovery of damages arising out of, or related to deficiencies in, the residential construction, design, specifications, surveying, planning, supervision, testing, or observation of construction, a builder, and to the extent set forth in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 910), a general contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, individual product manufacturer, or design professional, shall, except as specifically set forth in this title, be liable for, and the claimant’s claims or causes of action shall be limited to violation of, the following standards, except as specifically set forth in this title. This title applies to original construction intended to be sold as an individual dwelling unit. As to condominium conversions, this title does not apply to or does not supersede any other statutory or common law.
(a) With respect to water issues:
(1) A door shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through the door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, if any.
(2) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow water to pass beyond, around, or through the window, patio door, or deck door or its designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(3) Windows, patio doors, deck doors, and their systems shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, windows, window assemblies, framing, substrate, flashings, and trim, if any.
(4) Roofs, roofing systems, chimney caps, and ventilation components shall not allow water to enter the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers, including, without limitation, internal barriers located within the systems themselves. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, and sheathing, if any.
(5) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow water to pass into the adjacent structure. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(6) Decks, deck systems, balconies, balcony systems, exterior stairs, and stair systems shall not allow unintended water to pass within the systems themselves and cause damage to the systems. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashing, and sheathing, if any.
(7) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(8) Foundation systems and slabs shall not allow water or vapor to enter into the structure so as to limit the installation of the type of flooring materials typically used for the particular application.
(9) Hardscape, including paths and patios, irrigation systems, landscaping systems, and drainage systems, that are installed as part of the original construction, shall not be installed in such a way as to cause water or soil erosion to enter into or come in contact with the structure so as to cause damage to another building component.
(10) Stucco, exterior siding, exterior walls, including, without limitation, exterior framing, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures and the systems of those components and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall be installed in such a way so as not to allow unintended water to pass into the structure or to pass beyond, around, or through the designed or actual moisture barriers of the system, including any internal barriers located within the system itself. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(11) Stucco, exterior siding, and exterior walls shall not allow excessive condensation to enter the structure and cause damage to another component. For purposes of this paragraph, “systems” include, without limitation, framing, substrate, flashings, trim, wall assemblies, and internal wall cavities, if any.
(12) Retaining and site walls and their associated drainage systems shall not allow unintended water to pass beyond, around, or through its designed or actual moisture barriers including, without limitation, any internal barriers, so as to cause damage. This standard does not apply to those portions of any wall or drainage system that are designed to have water flow beyond, around, or through them.
(13) Retaining walls and site walls, and their associated drainage systems, shall only allow water to flow beyond, around, or through the areas designated by design.
(14) The lines and components of the plumbing system, sewer system, and utility systems shall not leak.
(15) Plumbing lines, sewer lines, and utility lines shall not corrode so as to impede the useful life of the systems.
(16) Sewer systems shall be installed in such a way as to allow the designated amount of sewage to flow through the system.
(17) Showers, baths, and related waterproofing systems shall not leak water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or the interior of other components.
(18)  The waterproofing system behind or under ceramic tile and tile countertops shall not allow water into the interior of walls, flooring systems, or other components so as to cause damage. Ceramic tile systems shall be designed and installed so as to deflect intended water to the waterproofing system.
(b) With respect to structural issues:
(1) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, shall not contain significant cracks or significant vertical displacement.
(2) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs shall not cause the structure, in whole or in part, to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Foundations, load bearing components, and slabs, and underlying soils shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria set by applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for chemical deterioration or corrosion resistance in effect at the time of original construction.
(4) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria for earthquake and wind load resistance, as set forth in the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances in effect at the time of original construction.
(c) With respect to soil issues:
(1) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, damage to the structure built upon the soil or engineered retaining wall.
(2) Soils and engineered retaining walls shall not cause, in whole or in part, the structure to be structurally unsafe.
(3) Soils shall not cause, in whole or in part, the land upon which no structure is built to become unusable for the purpose represented at the time of original sale by the builder or for the purpose for which that land is commonly used.
(d) With respect to fire protection issues:
(1) A structure shall be constructed so as to materially comply with the design criteria of the applicable government building codes, regulations, and ordinances for fire protection of the occupants in effect at the time of the original construction.
(2) Fireplaces, chimneys, chimney structures, and chimney termination caps shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire outside the fireplace enclosure or chimney.
(3) Electrical and mechanical systems shall be constructed and installed in such a way so as not to cause an unreasonable risk of fire.
(e) With respect to plumbing and sewer issues:
Plumbing and sewer systems shall be installed to operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action may be brought for a violation of this subdivision more than four years after close of escrow.
(f) With respect to electrical system issues:
Electrical systems shall operate properly and shall not materially impair the use of the structure by its inhabitants. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this subdivision more than four years from close of escrow.
(g) With respect to issues regarding other areas of construction:
(1) Exterior pathways, driveways, hardscape, sidewalls, sidewalks, and patios installed by the original builder shall not contain cracks that display significant vertical displacement or that are excessive. However, no action shall be brought upon a violation of this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(2) Stucco, exterior siding, and other exterior wall finishes and fixtures, including, but not limited to, pot shelves, horizontal surfaces, columns, and plant-ons, shall not contain significant cracks or separations.
(3) (A) To the extent not otherwise covered by these standards, manufactured products, including, but not limited to, windows, doors, roofs, plumbing products and fixtures, fireplaces, electrical fixtures, HVAC units, countertops, cabinets, paint, and appliances shall be installed so as not to interfere with the products’ useful life, if any.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph, “useful life” means a representation of how long a product is warranted or represented, through its limited warranty or any written representations, to last by its manufacturer, including recommended or required maintenance. If there is no representation by a manufacturer, a builder shall install manufactured products so as not to interfere with the product’s utility.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, “manufactured product” means a product that is completely manufactured offsite.
(D) If no useful life representation is made, or if the representation is less than one year, the period shall be no less than one year. If a manufactured product is damaged as a result of a violation of these standards, damage to the product is a recoverable element of damages. This subparagraph does not limit recovery if there has been damage to another building component caused by a manufactured product during the manufactured product’s useful life.
(E) This title does not apply in any action seeking recovery solely for a defect in a manufactured product located within or adjacent to a structure.
(4) Heating shall be installed so as to be capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor in any living space if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted prior to January 1, 2008, or capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit at a point three feet above the floor and two feet from exterior walls in all habitable rooms at the design temperature if the heating was installed pursuant to a building permit application submitted on or before January 1, 2008.
(5) Living space air-conditioning, if any, shall be provided in a manner consistent with the size and efficiency design criteria specified in Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations or its successor.
(6) Attached structures shall be constructed to comply with interunit noise transmission standards set by the applicable government building codes, ordinances, or regulations in effect at the time of the original construction. If there is no applicable code, ordinance, or regulation, this paragraph does not apply. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from the original occupancy of the adjacent unit.
(7) Irrigation systems and drainage shall operate properly so as not to damage landscaping or other external improvements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than one year from close of escrow.
(8) Untreated wood posts shall not be installed in contact with soil so as to cause unreasonable decay to the wood based upon the finish grade at the time of original construction. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(9) Untreated steel fences and adjacent components shall be installed so as to prevent unreasonable corrosion. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than four years from close of escrow.
(10) Paint and stains shall be applied in such a manner so as not to cause deterioration of the building surfaces for the length of time specified by the paint or stain manufacturers’ representations, if any. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than five years from close of escrow.
(11) Roofing materials shall be installed so as to avoid materials falling from the roof.
(12) The landscaping systems shall be installed in such a manner so as to survive for not less than one year. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(13) Ceramic tile and tile backing shall be installed in such a manner that the tile does not detach.
(14) Dryer ducts shall be installed and terminated pursuant to manufacturer installation requirements. However, no action shall be brought pursuant to this paragraph more than two years from close of escrow.
(15) Structures shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to impair the occupants’ safety because they contain public health hazards as determined by a duly authorized public health official, health agency, or governmental entity having jurisdiction. This paragraph does not limit recovery for any damages caused by a violation of any other paragraph of this section on the grounds that the damages do not constitute a health hazard.
peg squared summary: Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law defines “systems” for purposes of these provisions. Existing law
pigasus summary: (1) Existing law regulates the placement of exterior doors and windows in residential structures. Existing law requires exterior doors and windows to be installed with specified fasteners and requires exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. Existing law also requires exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. This bill would require exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. The bill would also require exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, as provided. By requiring exterior doors and windows to be operable only by means of a light-controlled opening, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. (2) Existing law regulates certain exterior doors and windows. Existing law requires a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit and requires a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit. This bill would require a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing board of a residential dwelling unit and would require a code of conduct for exterior doors and windows to be adopted by the governing
