Lowest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large NOT finetuned can be seen below
target summary is: 
(1) The Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), an initiative measure enacted by the voters as Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, imposes a 1% tax on that portion of a taxpayer’s taxable income that exceeds $1,000,000 and requires that the revenue from that tax be deposited in the Mental Health Services Fund to fund various county mental health programs. The MHSA authorizes the Legislature to amend its provisions by a
2/3
vote, provided that the amendment is consistent with and furthers the intent of the act.
Existing law, known as the No Place Like Home Program, requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to award $2,000,000,000 among counties to finance capital costs, including, but not limited to, acquisition, design, construction, rehabilitation, or preservation, and to capitalize operating reserves, of permanent supportive housing for the target population, as specified. Existing law requires the department to distribute $1,800,000,000 through a competitive program and to allocate $200,000,000 among all counties within this state on an “over-the-counter” population basis.
The bill would authorize the California Health Facilities Financing Authority and the department to, among other things, enter into contracts to provide services pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program related to permanent supportive housing. The bill would also authorize the authority to issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for these purposes and to make secured or unsecured loans to the department in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would require that the dollar limit on amounts distributed under the No Place Like Home Program be based on the principal amount of bonds issued by the authority and loaned to the department.
The bill would additionally authorize the use of moneys in the Mental Health Services Fund for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also establish and continuously appropriate the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount in the Mental Health Services Fund. The bill would require the Controller, no later than the last day of each month and prior to any transfer or expenditure from the fund for any other purpose for the following month, to transfer from the Mental Health Services Fund to the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount an amount necessary to cover the costs the authority is required to pay to the department pursuant to an above-described service contract, as determined by the authority but not to exceed an aggregate amount of $140,000,000 per year. The bill would prohibit moneys in the Supportive Housing Program Subaccount from being loaned to the General Fund pursuant to specified statutes.
The bill would exempt service contracts between the department and the authority pursuant to these provisions from specified public contracting laws. The bill would also exempt loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority from any other law applicable to the execution of those agreements or issuance of those bonds, including the California Environmental Quality Act.
(2) Existing law establishes the No Place Like Home Fund and continuously appropriates the moneys in this fund to the Department of Housing and Community Development for the purposes of the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the deposit into the fund of, among other moneys, any proceeds from the issuance of bonds by the Treasurer.
This bill would instead require the department to deposit into the fund the proceeds of loans derived from the issuance of bonds under this bill by the California Health Facilities Financing Authority. The bill would additionally continuously appropriate moneys in the fund to the Treasurer and the authority for purposes of the No Place Like Home Program.
(3) Existing law requires counties to annually report specified information to the Department of Housing and Community Development on activities funded under the No Place Like Home Program, including information on the funded supportive housing development. Existing law also requires the department to report specified information on the program to the Legislature by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect.
This bill would require the department to monitor county compliance with applicable program regulations, loan agreements and regulatory agreements and any agreements related to the program that designate the department as a 3rd party beneficiary, and enforce those agreements to the extent necessary and desirable in order to provide, to the greatest degree possible, the successful provision of permanent supportive housing. The bill would require the department to submit a report to the California Health Facilities Financing Authority by December 31 of each year, commencing with the year after the first full year in which the program is in effect, that contains specified information about the counties participating in the program and the services that have been provided pursuant to any service contracts between the department and the authority, as described above.
(4) Existing law establishes a procedure by which a public agency may bring an action in the superior court to determine the validity of any matter authorized by other law. Existing law authorizes an action under this procedure to determine the legality of any action by the Department of Housing and Community Development related to the No Place Like Home Program. Existing law requires the department to issue its first request for proposal for the competitive program no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds within 60 days, after the deadline for appeals under the validation procedure.
This bill would recast this authorization to instead authorize an action to determine the validity of any service contract or loan agreement between the department and the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, as described above, in accordance with specified provisions governing actions to determine the validity of bonds, warrants, contracts, obligations, or evidences of indebtedness. The bill would instead require the department to issue its first request for proposal no later than 180 days, and to make its first allocation of “over-the-counter” funds as soon as reasonably practical, but no later than 150 days, after the effective date of a final judgment with no further opportunity for appeals, in any court proceeding affirming the validity of the service contracts between the department and the authority and any bonds issued by the authority.
(5) Existing law authorizes the Department of Finance to authorize a loan from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund for cashflow purposes in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. Existing law requires that a loan comply with certain requirements, including that the purpose of the loan is to allow the department to begin implementation activities related to the No Place Like Home Program, including drafting program guidelines and regulations.
This bill would instead authorize the Department of Finance to authorize one or more loans from the General Fund to the No Place Like Home Fund in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The bill would additionally authorize loans for the purpose of allowing the Department of Housing and Community Development, the California Health Facilities Financing Authority, and the Treasurer to implement the above-described provisions pertaining to service contracts and loan agreements between the department and the authority and revenue bonds issued by the authority.
(6) Existing law makes various findings and declarations regarding the No Place Like Home Program.
This bill would make additional findings and declarations pertaining to the financing and implementation of the No Place Like Home Program. The bill would also make various technical and conforming changes to the No Place Like Home Program.
(7) This bill would declare that its provisions further the intent of the MHSA.
(8) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.
produced summary is: 
(b) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 15463 is added to the Government Code, to read:
15463.
(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “No Place Like Home Program” has the same meaning as “program” as defined in Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(2) “No Place Like Home Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(3) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(b) The authority may issue taxable or tax-exempt revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed two billion dollars ($2,000,000,000), exclusive of refunding bonds but including any net premium derived from the sale of the bonds, pursuant to Sections 15441 to 15450, inclusive, for the purpose of financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program and through loans under subdivision (d). The authority may also utilize bond proceeds to fund necessary reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement or liquidity costs, costs of issuance, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(c) The authority may provide for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of redeeming, refunding, or retiring any bonds or any series or issue of bonds then outstanding issued under subdivision (b), including the payment of any redemption premium thereon and any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of redemption, purchase, or maturity of the bonds. Subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 15446 apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision. Sections 15441 to 15445, inclusive, and Sections 15447 to 15450, inclusive, apply to, and in connection with, bonds issued under this subdivision in the same manner and to the same extent as bonds issued under subdivision (b).
(d) The authority may make secured or unsecured loans to the Department of Housing and Community Development in connection with financing permanent supportive housing pursuant to the No Place Like Home Program or to refund bonds previously issued pursuant to this section, in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development. Loan proceeds may also be used to fund reserves for principal and interest, capitalized interest, credit enhancement and liquidity costs, expenses of funding, financing, and refinancing, administrative expenses under Section 5849.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and to reimburse loans under Section 5849.14 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(e) Each of the authority and the Department of Housing and Community Development may enter into any agreement for credit enhancement or liquidity, execute any instruments, and do any other acts it deems necessary, convenient, or desirable in connection with revenue bonds issued pursuant to this section or carry out any power expressly granted pursuant to this section.
(f) (1) This section provides a complete, additional, and alternative method for performing the acts authorized by this section and shall be construed as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws; provided, however, that the issuance of the bonds and refunding bonds and the execution of any agreements under this section are not subject to, and need not comply with, the requirements of any other law applicable to the issuance of those bonds or refunding bonds and the execution of those agreements, including, but not limited to, the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), funding or financing under this section shall not exempt the permanent supportive housing from the requirements of any other law otherwise applicable to the permanent supportive housing.
SEC. 2.
Section 5849.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
5849.1.
(a) The Legislature finds and declares that this part is consistent with and furthers the purposes of the Mental Health Services Act, enacted by Proposition 63 at the November 2, 2004, statewide general election, within the meaning of Section 18 of that measure.
(b) The Legislature further finds and declares all of the following:
(1) Housing is a key factor for stabilization and recovery to occur and results in improved outcomes for individuals living with a mental illness.
(2) Untreated mental illness can increase the risk of homelessness, especially for single adults.
(3) California has the nation’s largest homeless population that is disproportionally comprised of women with children, veterans, and the chronically homeless.
(4) California has the largest number of homeless veterans in the United States at 24 percent of the total population in our nation. Fifty percent of California’s veterans live with serious mental illness and 70 percent have a substance use disorder.
(5) Fifty percent of mothers experiencing homelessness have experienced a major depressive episode since becoming homeless and 36 percent of these mothers live with post-traumatic stress disorder and 41 percent have a substance use disorder.
(6) Ninety-three percent of supportive housing tenants who live with mental illness and substance use disorders voluntarily participated in the services offered.
(7) Adults who receive 2 years of “whatever-it-takes,” or Full Service Partnership services, experience a 68 percent reduction in homelessness.
(8) For every dollar of bond funds invested in permanent supportive housing, the state and local governments can leverage a significant amount of additional dollars through tax credits, Medicaid health services funding, and other housing development funds.
(9) Tenants of permanent supportive housing reduced their visits to the emergency department by 56 percent, and their hospital admissions by 45 percent.
(10) The cost in public services for a chronically homeless Californian ranges from $60,000 to $100,000 annually. When housed, these costs are cut in half and some reports show reductions in cost of more than 70 percent, including potentially less involvement with the health and criminal justice systems.
(11) Californians have identified homelessness as their top tier priority; this measure seeks to address the needs of the most vulnerable people within this population.
(12) Having counties provide mental health programming and services is a benefit to the state.
(13) The Department of Housing and Community Development is the state entity with sufficient expertise to implement and oversee a grant or loan program for permanent supportive housing of the target population.
(14) The California Health Facilities Financing Authority is authorized by law to issue bonds and to consult with the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission and the State Department of Health Care Services concerning the implementation of a grant or loan program for California counties to support the development of programs that increase access to, and capacity for, crisis mental health services. It is therefore appropriate for the authority to issue bonds and contract for services with the Department of Housing and Community Development to provide grants or loans to California counties for permanent supportive housing for the target population.
(15) Use of bond funding will accelerate the availability of funding for the grant or loan program to provide permanent supportive housing for the target population as compared to relying on annual allocations from the Mental Health Services Fund and better allow counties to provide permanent supportive housing for homeless individuals living with mental illness.
(16) The findings and declarations set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 5849.35 are hereby incorporated herein.
SEC. 3.
Section 5849.2 of the Welfare and Instiace Like Home Program Advisory Committee established pursuant to Section 5849.3.
(f) “County” includes, but is not limited to, a city and county, and a city receiving funds pursuant to Section 5701.5.
(g) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.
(h) “Development sponsor” has the same meaning as “sponsor” as defined in Section 50675.2 of the Health and Safety Code.
(i) “Fund” means the No Place Like Home Fund established pursuant to Section 5849.4.
(j) “Homeless” has the same meaning as defined in Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as that section read on May 1, 2016.
(k) “Permanent supportive housing” has the same meaning as “supportive housing,” as defined in Section 50675.14 of the Health and Safety Code, except that “permanent supportive housing” shall include associated facilities if used to provide services to housing residents.
(l) “Program” means the process for awarding funds and distributing moneys to applicants established in Sections 5849.7, 5849.8, and 5849.9 and the ongoing monitoring and enforcement of the applicants’ activities pursuant to Sections 5849.8, 5849.9, and 5849.11.
(1) “Competitive program” means that portion of the program established by Section 5849.8.
(2) “Distribution program” means that portion of the program described in Section 5849.9.
(m) “Target population” means individuals or households as provided in Section 5600.3 who are homeless, chronically homeless, or at risk of chronic homelessness.
r1 score is: 
0.1165181631254283
==================================
target summary is: 
(1) Existing law regulates the production, handling, and marketing of milk and dairy products and requires milk products plants to comply with specified standards and requirements. Existing law authorizes the Secretary of Food and Agriculture to issue a limited packaging permit to a semifrozen milk products plant for on-premises manufacture and packaging of hard frozen dairy products or hard frozen dairy product novelties if certain requirements are satisfied.
This bill would delete a requirement that an establishment be closed to the public when hard frozen dairy product novelties are manufactured and packaged and would delete a requirement that a manufacturer that directly serves frozen yogurt or nondairy frozen dessert on its premises post specified signs on the premises.
(2) Existing law requires certain unfrozen product mixes used in the manufacture of specified frozen dairy products to comply with all of the requirements for ice cream, frozen dairy dessert, or frozen dessert, respectively.
This bill would require frozen yogurt mix to comply with all of the requirements for frozen yogurt.
(3) Existing law requires every milk handler to pay specified assessments and fees to the Secretary of Food and Agriculture to cover the costs of regulating milk. In that regard, existing law requires every milk handler who receives manufacturing milk subject to the milk marketing regulatory requirements or a handler subject to a milk stabilization and marketing plan, including producer-handlers, to deduct a specified assessment from payments made to producers for manufacturing milk or market milk, respectively. Existing law establishes the Department of Food and Agriculture Fund as a special fund, and continuously appropriates moneys in the fund for the administration and enforcement of, among other things, laws regulating the marketing of milk and other dairy products and the stabilization and marketing of market milk.
This bill would, for purposes of those provisions, define the term “educational and research activities” and would additionally provide for the regulation of milk and dairy products-related educational and research activities. The bill would authorize the use of moneys from the above-described assessments and fees for administering and enforcing the manufacturing milk and market milk laws, including the regulation of those educational and research activities. By authorizing the expenditure of moneys from the fund for a new purpose, that is, for milk and dairy-related educational and research activities, the bill would make an appropriation.
(4) Existing law establishes the California Citrus Advisory Committee and requires the committee to develop and make recommendations to the Secretary of Food and Agriculture regarding procedures for implementing an inspection program. Existing law requires producers of navel oranges, Valencia oranges, lemons, or mandarin citrus varieties grown in this state and prepared for fresh market in certain counties of the state to pay an assessment, as provided. Existing law requires the assessment to be collected from the producer by the first handler and requires that the assessment be remitted to the Department of Food and Agriculture by the first handler, along with an assessment form, at the end of each month during the marketing season. Existing law requires any handler that does not file the required assessment report and assessments by the 10th day of the month following the month for which the assessment is payable to pay a penalty of 10% of the assessment owed and, in addition, 1.5% interest per month on the unpaid balance.
This bill would instead require a handler to file the required assessment form and pay the assessment and inspection fees by the last day of the month immediately following the month in which the commodities were received and would additionally apply the 10% penalty and 1.5% interest to a failure to pay an inspection fee. The bill would make a handler personally liable for the payment of assessments and inspection fees.
(5) Existing law establishes the California Sheep Commission, comprised of 14 members who are elected or appointed in accordance with specified provisions to serve 2-year terms and limits the terms of office for each member to 4 consecutive terms.
This bill would delete the provision limiting the terms of office of each member to 4 consecutive terms.
(6) The California Land Conservation Act of 1965, also known as the Williamson Act, authorizes a city or county to contract with a landowner for the continued use of the land for agricultural use in exchange for a lower assessed valuation for property tax purposes. Existing law requires the Department of Conservation to provide a preliminary valuation of the land to the county assessor and the city council or county board of supervisors at least 60 days prior to the effective date of the agreed upon cancellation valuation if the contract includes an additional cancellation fee.
This bill would specify that the Department of Conservation is required to provide the preliminary valuation pursuant to those provisions only if the department and landowner agree upon a cancellation value pursuant to a specified provision, as specified.
produced summary is: 
(a) (1) Sections 33701, 33731, 33732, 33733, 33734, 33767, 33768, 33770, 33771, 33776, and 34593 do not apply to the manufacture of ice cream that is manufactured from ice cream mix, to frozen dairy dessert that is manufactured from frozen dairy dessert mix, to frozen dessert that is manufactured from frozen dessert mix, to frozen yogurt that is manufactured from frozen yogurt mix, or to nondairy frozen dessert that is manufactured from nondairy frozen dessert mix, if those products are manufactured in a freezing device from which those products are served directly in a semifrozen state, without packaging of any type, for consumption on the premises in or from rooms where food is served to the public. (3) Ice cream mix, frozen yogurt mix, frozen dairy dessert mix, frozen dessert mix, and nondairy frozen dessert mix shall be manufactured into a semifrozen state without adulteration and freezing device salvage shall not be reused as a mix.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 33704 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
33704.
(a) (1) Sections 33701, 33731, 33732, 33733, 33734, 33767, 33768, 33770, 33771, 33776, and 34593 do not apply to the manufacture of ice cream that is manufactured from ice cream mix, to frozen dairy dessert that is manufactured from frozen dairy dessert mix, to frozen dessert that is manufactured from frozen dessert mix, to frozen yogurt that is manufactured from frozen yogurt mix, or to nondairy frozen dessert that is manufactured from nondairy frozen dessert mix, if those products are manufactured in a freezing device from which those products are served directly in a semifrozen state, without packaging of any type, for consumption on the premises in or from rooms where food is served to the public.
(2) Except for nondairy frozen dessert mix, all mixes shall be secured from a licensed manufacturer of milk products.
(3) Ice cream mix, frozen yogurt mix, frozen dairy dessert mix, frozen dessert mix, and nondairy frozen dessert mix shall be manufactured into a semifrozen state without adulteration and freezing device salvage shall not be reused as a mix.
(b) A limited packaging permit may be issued by the secretary to a semifrozen (soft-serve) milk products plant for on-premises manufacture and packaging of hard frozen dairy products or hard frozen dairy product novelties. The permit may only be issued after the suitability of the facility for manufacture and packaging has been determined by the secretary. An annual onsite evaluation of compliance with the specific permit conditions shall be completed by the secretary before renewal of the limited packaging permit. A semifrozen milk products plant issued a limited packaging permit shall meet all of the following standards:
(1) The hard frozen products shall only be sold to purchasers for consumption. No hard frozen product manufactured pursuant to the limited packaging permit shall be sold for resale.
(2) All frozen dairy product mixes used for the manufacture and packaging of hard frozen dairy product novelties shall be dispensed from single service containers sealed at the licensed milk products plant where processed and pasteurized. Reconstitution of dry mix or condensed mix is prohibited at a semifrozen milk products plant issued a limited packaging permit.
(3) Adequate facilities, consistent with recognized good manufacturing practices for the production and packaging of hard frozen dairy products, as determined by the secretary, shall be provided as a condition of the limited packaging permit. The facilities shall include, but are not limited to, adequate utensil and novelty mold washing, sterilization and storage, and sufficient sanitary work area, including handwashing facilities, dedicated to the manufacture and packaging of hard frozen dairy product novelties. Sanitation guidelines consistent with good manufacturing and handling practices for retail food establishments manufacturing and packaging hard frozen dairy products in conformance with Part 110 (commencing with Section 110.3) of Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations shall be utilized by the secretary as a condition for issuance and renewal of the limited packaging permit.
(4) Each individually packaged hard frozen novelty shall be labeled with the name of the product and the name and address of the manufacturer.
(c) Nondairy frozen dessert mix shall be obtained from manufacturers licensed pursuant to Sections 38931 and 38934. Any dry or condensed mix to be reconstituted into freezable form shall be reconstituted on the premises in containers or equipment that meet the requirements of Sections 33763, 33764, 33765, and 33766. Any water used for reconstitution shall be treated in a manner to ensure a quality equal to potable pasteurized water. Upon reconstitution, the product shall be poured directly into the freezing unit or refrigerated at a temperature not to exceed 45 degrees Fahrenheit, and so maintained until frozen, or both.
(d) Where any retail establishment manufactures two or more of the products provided for under this section, each of those products shall be processed in a separate freezing device, and that freezing device shall be clearly identified as to the product being manufactured therein.
(e) The secretary may, by agreement with any approved milk inspection service, authorize the service to inspect and enforce requirements of this code applicable to the establishments covered by this section. Any agreement shall provide that the approved inspection service shall collect the applicable license fee for those establishments as provided in Sections 35221 and 38933. The fees collected shall be retained by the approved service to cover its cost of enforcement, but 15 percent of the fees collected shall be remitted to the secretary to cover the cost of administration.
SEC. 2.
Section 33704.5 of the Food and Agricultural Code is repealed.
SEC. 3.
Section 36806 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
36806.
Ice cream mix, frozen yogurt mix, frozen dairy dessert mix, and frozen dessert mix are unfrozen products that are used in the manufacture of ice cream, frozen yogurt, frozen dairy dessert, or frozen dessert. They shall comply with all the requirements for ice cream, frozen yogurt, frozen dairy dessert, or frozen dessert, respectively.
SEC. 4.
Section 48003 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
48003.
(a) Every person acting as a handler of commodities subject to this chapter shall be personally liable for the payment of assessments and inspection fees. Any handler who fails to file the required assessment form or pay an assessment or inspection fee by the last day of the month immediately following the month in which the commodities were received shall pay to the secretary a penalty of 10 percent of the assessment, inspection fee, or the sum of both the assessment fee and the inspection fee, owed and, in addition, 1.5 percent interest per month on the unpaid balance.
(b) It shall be unlawful for a handler to refuse to collect the assessments or remit the assessments and the proper forms required by this chapter.
(c) A handler shall not charge a producer an administrative fee for collecting or remitting an assessment.
(d) A producer who disputes the amount of the assessment may file a claim with the secretary. The producer shall prove his or her claim by a preponderance of the evidence.
(e) A producer may not bring a claim against a handler for damages, or otherwise, in connection with the assessment or the required deduction by the handler of the moneys owed to the producer.
SEC. 5.
Section 61306.5 is added to the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:
61306.5.
“Educational and research activities” means any effort to develop and improve the management practices of dairy producers and processors, including, but not limited to, practices associated with the environmental sustainability of land, air quality, and water quality.
SEC. 6.
Section 61345 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
61345.
(a) Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 61801), Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 62500), and Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 62700) shall be liberally construed as being complementary of, and supplemental to, this chapter, and these chapters shall constitute a single comprehensive scheme for the regulation of the production and handling of milk and related educational and research activities. However, each of the chapters, and each article, section, subdivision, sentence, clause, and phrase of each chapter is severable.
(b) If one of the chapters or any article, section, subdivision, sentence, clause, or phrase of any one of the chapters is for any reason held void, invalid, or unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the validity of any other chapter or any of its articles, sections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, or phrases.
SEC. 7.
Section 61412 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
61412.
(a) (1) Every milk handler who receives manufacturing milk subject to this article shall deduct as an assessment from payments made to producers for manufacturing milk the sum of one and two-tenths cents ($0.012) per hundredweight of manufacturing milk.
(2) The amount of the assessments deducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be paid to the secretary on or before the 45th day following the last day of the month during which the manufacturing milk was received.
(b) (1) Every milk handler who receives manufacturing milk subject to this article that purchases or handles manufacturing milk from producers shall pay a fee of six-tenths of one cent ($0.006) per hundredweight of manufacturing milk.
(2) The amount of the fee shall be paid to the secretary on or before the 45th day following the last day of the month in which the manufacturing milk was received.
(c) Moneys from the amounts paid to the secretary pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) may be used to administer and enforce this chapter.
SEC. 8.
Section 61805 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
61805.
The purposes of this chapter are to do all of the following:
(a) Provide funds for administration and enforcement of this chapter, by assessments to be paid by producers and handlers of market milk in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
(b) Authorize and enable the secretary to prescribe marketing areas and to determine minimum prices to be paid to producers by handlers for market milk that are necessary due to varying factors of costs of production, health regulations, transportation, and other factors in the marketing areas of this state. In determining minimum prices to be paid producers by handlers, the secretary shall endeavor under like conditions to achieve uniformity of cost to handlers for market milk within any marketing area. However, no minimum prices established or determined under this chapter shall be invalid because uniformity of cost to handlers for market milk in any marketing area is not achieved as a result of the minimum producer prices so established or determined.
(c) Authorize and enable the secretary to formulate stabilization and marketing plans, subject to the limitations prescribed in this chapter with respect to the contents of the stabilization and marketing plans, and to declare the plans in effect for any marketing area.
(d) Enable the dairy industry, with the aid of the state, to develop and maintain satisfactory marketing conditions, bring about and maintain a reasonable amount of stability and prosperity in the production of market milk, and provide means for conducting educational and research activities.
SEC. 9.
Section 62211 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
62211.
(a) (1) Every handler subject to the provisions of any stabilization and marketing plan, including a producer-handler, shall deduct as an assessment from payments made to producers for market milk, including the handler’s own production, the sum of one and six-tenths cents ($0.016) per hundredweight of market milk.
(2) The amount of the assessments so deducted shall be paid to the secretary on or before the 45th day following the last day of the month during which such market milk was received.
(b) (1) Every handler subject to the provisions of any stabilization and marketing plan that purchases or handles market milk from producers, including the handler’s own production, if any, shall pay a fee of eight-tenths of one cent ($0.008) per hundredweight of market milk.
(2) The amount of such fee shall be paid to the secretary on or before the 45th day following the last day of the month in which that market milk was received.
(c) Moneys from the amounts paid to the secretary pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) may be used to administer and enforce this chapter.
SEC. 10.
Section 76259 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:
76259.
The term of office of all members of the commission, except ex officio members, shall be two years from the date of their election and until their successors are qualified. However, of the first members of the commission, one-half of the producers shall serve for one year, and one-half of the producers shall serve for two years, with the determination of the term of each such member made by lot at the time of the election.
SEC. 11.
Section 51203 of the Government Code is amended to read:
51203.
(a) The assessor shall determine the current fair market value of the land as if it were free of the contractual restriction pursuant to Section 51283. The Department of Conservation or the landowner, also referred to in this section as “parties,” may provide information to assist the assessor to determine the value. Any information provided to the assessor shall be served on the other party, unless the information was provided at the request of the assessor, and would be confidential under law if required of an assessee.
(b) Within 45 days of receiving the assessor’s notice pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 51283 or Section 51283.4, if the Department of Conservation or the landowner believes that the current fair market valuation certified pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 51283 or Section 51283.4 is not accurate, the department or the landowner may request formal review from the county assessor in the county considering the petition to cancel the contract. The department or the landowner shall submit to the assessor and the other party the reasons for believing the valuation is not accurate and the additional information the requesting party believes may substantiate a recalculation of the property valuation. The assessor may recover his or her reasonable costs of the formal review from the party requesting the review, and may provide an estimate of those costs to the requesting party. The recovery of these costs from the department may be deducted by the city or county from cancellation fees received pursuant to this chapter before transmittal to the Controller for deposit in the Soil Conservation Fund. The assessor may require a deposit from the landowner to cover the contingency that payment of a cancellation fee will not necessarily result from the completion of a formal review. This subdivision shall not be construed as a limitation on the authority provided in Section 51287 for cities or counties to recover their costs in the cancellation process, except that the assessor’s costs of conducting a formal review shall not be borne by the nonrequesting party.
(1) If no request is made within 45 days of receiving notice by certified mail of the valuation, the assessor’s valuation shall be used to calculate the fee.
(2) Upon receiving a request for formal review, the assessor shall formally review his or her valuation if, based on the determination of the assessor, the information may have a material effect on valuation of the property. The assessor shall notify the parties that the formal review is being undertaken and that information to aid the assessor’s review shall be submitted within 30 days of the date of the notice to the parties. Any information submitted to the assessor shall be served on the other party who shall have 30 days to respond to that information to the assessor. If the response to the assessor contains new information, the party receiving that response shall have 20 days to respond to the assessor as to the new information. All submittals and responses to the assessor shall be served on the other party by personal service or an affidavit of mailing. The assessor shall avoid ex parte contacts during the formal review and shall report any such contacts to the department and the landowner at the same time the review is complete. The assessor shall complete the review no later than 120 days of receiving the request.
(3) At the conclusion of the formal review, the assessor shall either revise the cancellation valuation or determine that the original cancellation valuation is accurate. The assessor shall send the revised valuation or notice of the determination that the valuation is accurate to the department, the landowner, and the board or council considering the petition to cancel the contract. The assessor shall include a brief narrative of what consideration was given to the items of information and responses directly relating to the cancellation value submitted by the parties. The assessor shall give no consideration to a party’s information or response that was not served on the other party. If the assessor denies a formal review, a brief narrative shall be provided to the parties indicating the basis for the denial, if requested.
(c) For purposes of this section, the valuation date of any revised valuation pursuant to formal review or following judicial challenge shall remain the date of the assessor’s initial valuation, or his or her initial recomputation pursuant to Section 51283.4. For purposes of cancellation fee calculation in a tentative cancellation as provided in Section 51283, or in a recomputation for final cancellation as provided in Section 51283.4, a cancellation value shall be considered current for one year after its determination and certification by the assessor.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the department and the landowner may agree on a cancellation valuation of the land. The agreed valuation shall serve as the cancellation valuation pursuant to Section 51283 or Section 51283.4. The agreement shall be transmitted to the board or council considering the petition to cancel the contract.
(e) If the department and landowner agree upon a cancellation value pursuant to subdivision (d) on a contract with a city or county that includes an additional cancellation fee pursuant to Section 51240, the department shall provide a preliminary valuation to the county assessor of the county in which the land is located and the board of supervisors or the city council at least 60 days before the effective date of the final cancellation valuation. The preliminary valuation shall include a description of the rationale and facts considered by the department in determining the cancellation value. The assessor may provide comments on the preliminary valuation to the board of supervisors or city council. The board of supervisors or city council may provide comments on the preliminary valuation and cancellation value, if submitted, to the department. Before determining the final cancellation valuation, the department shall consider the comments of the board or council concerning the preliminary valuation and cancellation valuation, if submitted.
(f) This section represents the exclusive administrative procedure for appealing a cancellation valuation calculated pursuant to this section. The Department of Conservation shall represent the interests of the state in the administrative and judicial remedies for challenging the determination of a cancellation valuation or cancellation fee.
r1 score is: 
0.1936799184505606
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law establishes the California Homebuyer’s Downpayment Assistance Program, which requires the California Housing Finance Agency to, among other things, administer a program that provides downpayment assistance, including deferred-payment, low-interest, junior mortgage loans to reduce principal and interest payments, that makes financing affordable to first-time low- and moderate-income home buyers, pursuant to specified terms.
This bill would appropriate $10,000,000 from the General Fund to the California Homebuyer’s Downpayment Assistance Program for the purposes of the downpayment assistance program described above. The bill would condition the application of these funds on an additional requirement that the home for which assistance is provided be in a development project that is in a designated infill site, close to public transit, and that is located in a city, county, or city and county that reduces developer or impact fees or reduces or removes regulatory barriers to housing construction for the development project, as specified. As part of this additional requirement, the bill would require a local agency to provide verification of the local agency’s schedule of local fees, charges, and other exactions to the California Housing Finance Agency and would thereby impose a state-mandated local program. The bill would make these moneys available for the general use of the California Housing Finance Agency for the purposes of the California Homebuyer’s Downpayment Assistance Program if specified requirements are met.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.
produced summary is: 
(B) The amount of downpayment assistance for a new home within an infill opportunity zone, as defined in Section 65088.1 of the Government Code, a transit village development district, as defined in Section 65460.4 of the Government Code, or a transit-oriented development specific plan area, as defined in paragraph (6), shall not exceed 5 percent of the purchase price or the appraised value, whichever amount is less, of the new home.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 51504 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:
51504.
(a) The agency shall administer a downpayment assistance program that includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
(1) Downpayment assistance shall include, but not be limited to, a deferred-payment, low-interest, junior mortgage loan to reduce the principal and interest payments and make financing affordable to first-time low- and moderate-income home buyers.
(2) (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) or (C), the amount of downpayment assistance shall not exceed 3 percent of the home sale price.
(B) The amount of downpayment assistance for a new home within an infill opportunity zone, as defined in Section 65088.1 of the Government Code, a transit village development district, as defined in Section 65460.4 of the Government Code, or a transit-oriented development specific plan area, as defined in paragraph (6), shall not exceed 5 percent of the purchase price or the appraised value, whichever amount is less, of the new home. The borrower of the downpayment assistance shall provide the lender originating the loan with a certification from the local government agency administering the infill opportunity zone, the transit village development district, or the transit-oriented development specific plan area that states that the property involved in the loan transaction is within the boundaries of either the infill opportunity zone, the transit village development district, or the transit-oriented development specific plan area.
(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the agency may, but is not required to, provide downpayment assistance that does not exceed 6 percent of the home sale price to first-time low-income home buyers who, as documented to the agency by a nonprofit organization that is certified and funded to provide home ownership counseling by a federally funded national nonprofit corporation, are purchasing a residence in a community revitalization area targeted by the nonprofit organization as a neighborhood in need of economic stimulation, renovation, and rehabilitation through efforts that include increased home ownership opportunities for low-income families. The agency shall not use more than six million dollars ($6,000,000) in funds made available pursuant to Section 53533 for the purposes of this paragraph.
(3) The amount of the downpayment assistance shall be secured by a deed of trust in a junior position to the primary financing provided. The term of the loan for the downpayment assistance shall not exceed the term of the primary loan.
(4) (A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the amount of the downpayment assistance shall be due and payable at the end of the term or upon sale of or refinancing of the home. The borrower may refinance the mortgages on the home provided that the principal and accrued interest on the junior mortgage loan securing the downpayment assistance are repaid in full. All repayments shall be made to the agency to be reallocated for the purposes of this chapter.
(B) The agency may, in its discretion, permit the downpayment assistance loan to be subordinated to refinancing if it determines that the borrower has demonstrated hardship, subordination is required to avoid foreclosure, and the new loan meets the agency’s underwriting requirements. The agency may permit subordination on those terms and conditions as it determines are reasonable.
(C) The amount of the downpayment assistance shall not be due and payable upon sale of the home if the first mortgage loan is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or if the first mortgage loan is, or has been, transferred to the FHA, or if the requirement is otherwise contrary to regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development governing FHA insured first mortgage loans.
(5) The agency may use up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated by the Legislature for purposes of this chapter to administer this program.
(6) For purposes of this section, “transit-oriented development specific plan area” means a specific plan that meets the criteria set forth in Section 65451 of the Government Code, is centered around a rail or light-rail station, ferry terminal, bus hub, or bus transfer station, and is intended to achieve a higher density use of land that facilitates use of the transit station.
(b) In addition to the downpayment assistance program authorized by subdivision (a), the agency may, at its discretion, use not more than seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000) of the funds available pursuant to this chapter to finance the acquisition of land and the construction and development of housing developments, as defined in Section 50073.5, and for-sale residential structures through short-term loans pursuant to its authority pursuant to Section 51100. However, the agency shall make downpayment assistance provided pursuant to paragraph (1), subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2), and paragraphs (3) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) the priority use for these funds. A loan made pursuant to this section is not subject to Article 4 (commencing with Section 51175) of Chapter 5.
(c) (1) In addition to the downpayment assistance program authorized by subdivision (a), the agency shall provide downpayment assistance from the funds appropriated by the act adding this subdivision to first-time home buyers pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (6) of subdivision (a) for homes in development projects that are located in designated infill sites, close to public transit, and that are located in cities, counties, or cities and counties that reduce developer or impact fees or reduce or remove regulatory barriers to housing construction for the development projects.
The agency shall identify and shall objectively measure the types of local agency actions or incentives that the agency determines appropriately reduce developer or impact fees or reduce or remove regulatory barriers to affordable housing projects.
These actions or incentives may include, but are not limited to, modifications to any or all of the following:
(A) Local design review requirements.
(B) Land use controls.
(C) Building codes and enforcement.
(D) Onsite or offsite improvement requirements.
(E) Project design.
(F) Permit processing.
(G) (i) A 30-percent reduction in the schedule of local fees, charges, and other exactions on local developers within the local agency’s jurisdiction within 12 months or more prior to the submission of the application for assistance pursuant to this subdivision. The local agency shall provide verification of the reduction with supporting documents showing successive annual fee schedules to the agency.
(ii) For the purposes of this subparagraph, “local fees, charges, and other exactions” includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
(I) Planning and zoning fees.
(II) Environmental documentation fees.
(III) Building permit fees.
(IV) Plan check fees.
(V) School fees.
(VI) School mitigation fees.
(VII) Highway, road, traffic, and transit fees.
(VIII) Water, wastewater, sewer, and drainage fees.
(IX) Utility or water connection fees.
(X) Public safety fees.
(XI) Capital facilities fees.
(XII) Parks and recreation fees.
(XIII) Any other fee that may substitute for the requirements described in subparagraph (D).
(2) Paragraph (1) applies only to the use of funds appropriated by the act adding this subdivision and shall not be construed to apply to the use of any other funds.
SEC. 2.
If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
SEC. 3.
The sum of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the California Homebuyer’s Downpayment Assistance Program for the purposes set forth in Section 51504 of the Health and Safety Code that satisfy the requirements of subdivision (c) of that section. After 48 months of availability, if the California Housing Finance Agency determines that these moneys will not be utilized for the purposes set forth in Section 51504 of the Health and Safety Code that satisfy the requirements of subdivision (c) of that section, the moneys shall be available for the general use of the California Housing Finance Agency for the purposes of the California Homebuyer’s Downpayment Assistance Program.
r1 score is: 
0.1837837837837838
==================================
Highest 3 R1 scores for PEG-Large NOT finetuned can be seen below
target summary is: 
The Franchise Investment Law generally requires a franchisor to register with the Department of Business Oversight before an offer or sale of a franchise in this state and provides that a willful violation of this law is a crime. Existing law provides, among other things, that an offer or sale of a franchise is made in this state when an offer to sell is made in this state, or an offer to buy is accepted in this state, or, if the franchisee is domiciled in this state, the franchised business is or will be operated in this state. Existing law provides that an offer to sell is not made in this state merely because a radio or television program originating outside this state is received in this state.
This bill would provide, until January 1, 2020, that an offer to sell is not made in this state merely because a prospective franchisor, or a franchisor who is not then offering a franchise for sale in California and has not registered an offering under the Franchise Investment Law, secures a space at a franchise trade show from which it offers information about its products, services, or system to the general public under specified circumstances, including, among others, the payment of a fee. The bill would also define a franchise trade show for purposes of the Franchise Investment Law.
produced summary is: 
(a) An offer or sale of a franchise is made in this state when an offer to sell is made in this state, or an offer to buy is accepted in this state, or, if the franchisee is domiciled in this state, the franchised business is or will be operated in this state. (c) An offer to sell is not made in this state merely because (1) the publisher circulates or there is circulated on his behalf in this state any bona fide newspaper or other publication of general, regular, and paid circulation which has had more than two-thirds of its circulation outside this state during the past 12 months, or (2) a radio or television program originating outside this state is received in this state. (d) An offer to sell is not made in this state merely because a franchisor, or a franchisor who is not then offering a franchise for sale in California and has not registered an offering under the provisions of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 31110), secures a space at a franchise trade show from which it offers information about its products, services, or system to the general public if the franchisor or prospective franchisor does all of the following: (1) Notifies the commissioner, in a form established by the commissioner, of its intent to attend and
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 31013 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
31013.
(a) An offer or sale of a franchise is made in this state when an offer to sell is made in this state, or an offer to buy is accepted in this state, or, if the franchisee is domiciled in this state, the franchised business is or will be operated in this state.
(b) An offer to sell is made in this state when the offer either originates from this state or is directed by the offeror to this state and received at the place to which it is directed. An offer to sell is accepted in this state when acceptance is communicated to the offeror in this state; and acceptance is communicated to the offeror in this state when the offeree directs it to the offeror in this state reasonably believing the offeror to be in this state and it is received at the place to which it is directed.
(c) An offer to sell is not made in this state merely because (1) the publisher circulates or there is circulated on his behalf in this state any bona fide newspaper or other publication of general, regular, and paid circulation which has had more than two-thirds of its circulation outside this state during the past 12 months, or (2) a radio or television program originating outside this state is received in this state.
(d) An offer to sell is not made in this state merely because a franchisor, or a franchisor who is not then offering a franchise for sale in California and has not registered an offering under the provisions of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 31110), secures a space at a franchise trade show from which it offers information about its products, services, or system to the general public if the franchisor or prospective franchisor does all of the following:
(1) Notifies the commissioner, in a form established by the commissioner, of its intent to attend and display its concept at the franchise trade show at least 30 days before the show and provides the commissioner with all of the following:
(A) A document, in a form established by the commissioner, that includes, at a minimum, all of the following:
(i) The franchise concept brand name and a description of the potential franchise offering.
(ii) The legal name, and, if applicable, the name under which the franchisor or prospective franchisor does or intends to do business, the address where it is domiciled, and the state or country, if outside the United States, where it is organized.
(iii) The names of the directors, trustees, general partners, principal officers, and other executives who will have management responsibility of the franchisor or prospective franchisor.
(iv) The address where the franchisor or prospective franchisor may be served legal process.
(v) Disclosure of any actions listed in Section 31115.5, against the directors, trustees, general partners, principal officers, or other executives who will have management responsibility of the franchisor or prospective franchisor.
(vi) Disclosure of any actions listed in Section 31115.5, against employees or representatives who will be attending the franchise trade show on behalf of the franchisor or prospective franchisor.
(vii) The proposed written or electronic information that the franchisor or prospective franchisor intends to distribute or use at the trade show.
(B) If the franchisor or prospective franchisor already possesses a current franchise disclosure document not yet registered in California, a copy of the franchise disclosure document.
(2) Conspicuously posts in public view within its franchise trade show booth a notice, in a form established by the commissioner, that states, at a minimum, all of the following:
(A) The franchisor or prospective franchisor is not offering a franchise for sale in California.
(B) The franchisor or prospective franchisor is not legally able to offer a franchise for sale in California.
(C) If anyone associated with the franchisor or prospective franchisor offers a franchise for sale or solicits an offer to purchase a franchise in California, that action should be reported to the commissioner.
(D) The contact information of the commissioner.
(e) The form described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) shall be in the form and content prescribed by the commissioner, but, at a minimum, shall state that it is unlawful for any person to offer or sell a franchise in California unless the offer of the franchise has been registered with the commissioner or is otherwise exempt.
(f) A franchisor or prospective franchisor requesting an exemption from a requirement to register pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) shall pay a fee of two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225) to the commissioner for each day the franchisor or prospective franchisor exhibits at the trade show.
(g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 2.
Section 31013 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
31013.
(a) An offer or sale of a franchise is made in this state when an offer to sell is made in this state, or an offer to buy is accepted in this state, or, if the franchisee is domiciled in this state, the franchised business is or will be operated in this state.
(b) An offer to sell is made in this state when the offer either originates from this state or is directed by the offeror to this state and received at the place to which it is directed. An offer to sell is accepted in this state when acceptance is communicated to the offeror in this state, and acceptance is communicated to the offeror in this state when the offeree directs it to the offeror in this state reasonably believing the offeror to be in this state and it is received at the place to which it is directed.
(c) An offer to sell is not made in this state merely because (1) the publisher circulates or there is circulated on his behalf in this state any bona fide newspaper or other publication of general, regular, and paid circulation which has had more than two-thirds of its circulation outside this state during the past 12 months, or (2) a radio or television program originating outside this state is received in this state.
(d) This section shall become effective on January 1, 2022.
SEC. 3.
Section 31020 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
31020.
(a)  “Franchise trade show” means an event in this state, displaying multiple franchise brands and open to multiple franchisors, that is advertised to, and invites, the general public to that event where franchisors who satisfy the reasonable criteria of the franchise trade show’s organizer may secure a space from where they can inform the members of the general public in attendance about their existing and prospective products, services, or systems.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 4.
Section 31115.5 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
31115.5.
(a) The commissioner may summarily issue a stop order denying the effectiveness of an applicant’s exemption application pursuant to subdivisions (d), (e) and (f) of Section 31013, if the commissioner finds any of the following:
(1) The proposed business model is not lawful in California.
(2) A director, trustee, general partner, principal officer, or other executive who will have management responsibility of a franchisor or prospective franchisor, or an employee or representative who will be attending the franchise trade show on behalf of the franchisor or prospective franchisor, has been any of the following:
(A) Convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to any felony.
(B) Held liable in a civil action by final judgment of a court for fraud, embezzlement, or misappropriation of property.
(C) Previously violated any franchise law of any state.
(3) The business would constitute a misrepresentation to, or deceit or fraud of, investors.
(4) The franchisor or prospective franchisor fails to meet the requirements of subdivision (d) to (e), inclusive, of Section 31013.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 5.
Section 31117 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
31117.
(a) Upon the entry of a stop order under Section 31115 or 31115.5, the commissioner shall promptly notify the applicant that it has been entered and of the reasons therefor and that upon receipt of written request the matter will be set down for hearing to commence within 15 business days after such receipt unless the applicant consents to a later date. If no hearing is requested within 30 days after receipt of the notice and none is ordered by the commissioner, the order will remain in effect until it is modified or vacated by the commissioner. If a hearing is requested or ordered, the commissioner, after notice and hearing in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, in connection with which the commissioner shall have all of the powers granted thereunder, may modify or vacate the order or extend it until its final determination.
(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed.
SEC. 6.
Section 31117 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
31117.
(a) Upon the entry of a stop order under Section 31115, the commissioner shall promptly notify the applicant that it has been entered and of the reasons therefor and that upon receipt of written request the matter will be set down for hearing to commence within 15 business days after such receipt unless the applicant consents to a later date. If no hearing is requested within 30 days after receipt of the notice and none is ordered by the commissioner, the order will remain in effect until it is modified or vacated by the commissioner. If a hearing is requested or ordered, the commissioner, after notice and hearing in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, in connection with which the commissioner shall have all of the powers granted thereunder, may modify or vacate the order or extend it until its final determination.
(b) This section shall become effective on January 1, 2022.
r1 score is: 
0.7244444444444444
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law requires that, except as specified, not less than the general prevailing rate of per diem wages, determined by the Director of Industrial Relations, be paid to workers employed on public works projects. Under existing law, an apprentice employed upon public works is required to be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and to be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered, as specified.
This bill would require, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice to perform work on a public works project and requires compliance with certain preemployment activities as a condition of employment, as specified, that the apprentice be paid the prevailing rate for the time spent on any required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the activity, if any, except as specified.
Because this bill would expand the application of the prevailing wage requirements, the violation of which is a crime, it would impose a state-mandated local program.
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
produced summary is: 
(b) (1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered. (2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the required activity, if any, at the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
1777.5.
(a) This chapter does not prevent the employment of properly registered apprentices upon public works.
(b) (1) Every apprentice employed upon public works shall be paid the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered and shall be employed only at the work of the craft or trade to which he or she is registered.
(2) Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, when a contractor requests the dispatch of an apprentice pursuant to this section to perform work on a public works project and requires the apprentice to fill out an application or undergo testing, training, an examination, or other preemployment process as a condition of employment, the apprentice shall be paid for the time spent on the required preemployment activity, including travel time to and from the required activity, if any, at the prevailing rate of per diem wages for apprentices in the trade to which he or she is registered. Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, a contractor is not required to compensate an apprentice for the time spent on preemployment activities if the apprentice is required to take a preemployment drug or alcohol test and he or she fails to pass that test.
(c) Only apprentices, as defined in Section 3077, who are in training under apprenticeship standards that have been approved by the Chief of the Division of Apprenticeship Standards and who are parties to written apprentice agreements under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3070) of Division 3 are eligible to be employed at the apprentice wage rate on public works. The employment and training of each apprentice shall be in accordance with either of the following:
(1) The apprenticeship standards and apprentice agreements under which he or she is training.
(2) The rules and regulations of the California Apprenticeship Council.
(d) If the contractor to whom the contract is awarded by the state or any political subdivision, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs workers in any apprenticeable craft or trade, the contractor shall employ apprentices in at least the ratio set forth in this section and may apply to any apprenticeship program in the craft or trade that can provide apprentices to the site of the public work for a certificate approving the contractor under the apprenticeship standards for the employment and training of apprentices in the area or industry affected. However, the decision of the apprenticeship program to approve or deny a certificate shall be subject to review by the Administrator of Apprenticeship. The apprenticeship program or programs, upon approving the contractor, shall arrange for the dispatch of apprentices to the contractor. A contractor covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards shall not be required to submit any additional application in order to include additional public works contracts under that program. “Apprenticeable craft or trade,” as used in this section, means a craft or trade determined as an apprenticeable occupation in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the California Apprenticeship Council. As used in this section, “contractor” includes any subcontractor under a contractor who performs any public works not excluded by subdivision (o).
(e) Before commencing work on a contract for public works, every contractor shall submit contract award information to an applicable apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public work. The information submitted shall include an estimate of journeyman hours to be performed under the contract, the number of apprentices proposed to be employed, and the approximate dates the apprentices would be employed. A copy of this information shall also be submitted to the awarding body, if requested by the awarding body. Within 60 days after concluding work on the contract, each contractor and subcontractor shall submit to the awarding body, if requested, and to the apprenticeship program a verified statement of the journeyman and apprentice hours performed on the contract. The information under this subdivision shall be public. The apprenticeship programs shall retain this information for 12 months.
(f) The apprenticeship program supplying apprentices to the area of the site of the public work shall ensure equal employment and affirmative action in apprenticeship for women and minorities.
(g) The ratio of work performed by apprentices to journeymen employed in a particular craft or trade on the public work may be no higher than the ratio stipulated in the apprenticeship standards under which the apprenticeship program operates if the contractor agrees to be bound by those standards. However, except as otherwise provided in this section, in no case shall the ratio be less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of journeyman work.
(h) This ratio of apprentice work to journeyman work shall apply during any day or portion of a day when any journeyman is employed at the jobsite and shall be computed on the basis of the hours worked during the day by journeymen so employed. Any work performed by a journeyman in excess of eight hours per day or 40 hours per week shall not be used to calculate the ratio. The contractor shall employ apprentices for the number of hours computed as above before the end of the contract or, in the case of a subcontractor, before the end of the subcontract. However, the contractor shall endeavor, to the greatest extent possible, to employ apprentices during the same time period that the journeymen in the same craft or trade are employed at the jobsite. When an hourly apprenticeship ratio is not feasible for a particular craft or trade, the Administrator of Apprenticeship, upon application of an apprenticeship program, may order a minimum ratio of not less than one apprentice for each five journeymen in a craft or trade classification.
(i) A contractor covered by this section who has agreed to be covered by an apprenticeship program’s standards upon the issuance of the approval certificate, or who has been previously approved for an apprenticeship program in the craft or trade, shall employ the number of apprentices or the ratio of apprentices to journeymen stipulated in the applicable apprenticeship standards, but in no event less than the 1-to-5 ratio required by subdivision (g).
(j) Upon proper showing by a contractor that he or she employs apprentices in a particular craft or trade in the state on all of his or her contracts on an annual average of not less than one hour of apprentice work for every five hours of labor performed by journeymen, the Administrator of Apprenticeship may grant a certificate exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 hourly ratio, as set forth in this section for that craft or trade.
(k) An apprenticeship program has the discretion to grant to a participating contractor or contractor association a certificate, which shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator of Apprenticeship, exempting the contractor from the 1-to-5 ratio set forth in this section when it finds that any one of the following conditions is met:
(1) Unemployment for the previous three-month period in the area exceeds an average of 15 percent.
(2) The number of apprentices in training in the area exceeds a ratio of 1 to 5.
(3) There is a showing that the apprenticeable craft or trade is replacing at least one-thirtieth of its journeymen annually through apprenticeship training, either on a statewide basis or on a local basis.
(4) Assignment of an apprentice to any work performed under a public works contract would create a condition that would jeopardize his or her life or the life, safety, or property of fellow employees or the public at large, or the specific task to which the apprentice is to be assigned is of a nature that training cannot be provided by a journeyman.
(l) If an exemption is granted pursuant to subdivision (k) to an organization that represents contractors in a specific trade from the 1-to-5 ratio on a local or statewide basis, the member contractors shall not be required to submit individual applications for approval to local joint apprenticeship committees, if they are already covered by the local apprenticeship standards.
(m) (1) A contractor to whom a contract is awarded, who, in performing any of the work under the contract, employs journeymen or apprentices in any apprenticeable craft or trade shall contribute to the California Apprenticeship Council the same amount that the director determines is the prevailing amount of apprenticeship training contributions in the area of the public works site. A contractor may take as a credit for payments to the council any amounts paid by the contractor to an approved apprenticeship program that can supply apprentices to the site of the public works project. The contractor may add the amount of the contributions in computing his or her bid for the contract.
(2) At the conclusion of the 2002–03 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the California Apprenticeship Council shall distribute training contributions received by the council under this subdivision, less the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for administering this subdivision, by making grants to approved apprenticeship programs for the purpose of training apprentices. The funds shall be distributed as follows:
(A) If there is an approved multiemployer apprenticeship program serving the same craft or trade and geographic area for which the training contributions were made to the council, a grant to that program shall be made.
(B) If there are two or more approved multiemployer apprenticeship programs serving the same craft or trade and county for which the training contributions were made to the council, the grant shall be divided among those programs based on the number of apprentices from that county registered in each program.
(C) All training contributions not distributed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be used to defray the future expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations for the administration and enforcement of apprenticeship standards and requirements under this code.
(3) All training contributions received pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury. Upon appropriation by the Legislature, all moneys in the Apprenticeship Training Contribution Fund shall be used for the purpose of carrying out this subdivision and to pay the expenses of the Department of Industrial Relations.
(n) The body awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted in the contract stipulations to effectuate this section. The stipulations shall fix the responsibility of compliance with this section for all apprenticeable occupations with the prime contractor.
(o) This section does not apply to contracts of general contractors or to contracts of specialty contractors not bidding for work through a general or prime contractor when the contracts of general contractors or those specialty contractors involve less than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).
(p) An awarding body that implements an approved labor compliance program in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 1771.5 may, with the approval of the director, assist in the enforcement of this section under the terms and conditions prescribed by the director.
SEC. 2.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
r1 score is: 
0.6149732620320855
==================================
target summary is: 
Existing law prohibits a workers’ compensation insurance policy or endorsement from being issued by an insurer unless the insurer files a copy of the form or endorsement with a rating organization and 30 days have expired from the date the form or endorsement is received by the Insurance Commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner, unless the commissioner gives written approval of the form or the endorsement prior to that time.
This bill would prohibit an ancillary agreement, as defined, to a workers’ compensation insurance policy from being issued by an insurer to a California employer, as defined, unless the insurer files a copy of the ancillary agreement with a rating organization and 30 days have expired from the date the ancillary agreement is received by the commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner unless the commissioner gives written approval of the ancillary agreement prior to that time. The prohibition would not apply to an ancillary agreement between an insurer and a California employer issued in conjunction with a workers’ compensation policy or endorsement that contains a deductible obligation or retrospectively rated loss limitation and meets specified criteria. The bill would authorize an insurer to use such an ancillary agreement and would require an insurer to submit a copy of that ancillary agreement to the commissioner within 30 days of issuing the ancillary agreement. The bill would provide that the terms and conditions of a workers’ compensation policy and any endorsements take precedence over the provisions contained in an ancillary agreement in the case of an inconsistency or conflict between the policy or endorsement and the ancillary agreement. The bill would make additional changes relating to collateral and security agreements, as defined. The changes made by the bill would apply to ancillary agreements issued or renewed on or after January 1, 2017. The bill would also make conforming changes.
The changes made by the bill would apply only until January 1, 2022.
produced summary is: 
(b) (1) An ancillary agreement shall not be issued by an insurer to a California employer unless the insurer files a copy of the ancillary agreement with the rating organization pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 11750.3 and 30 days have expired from the date the ancillary agreement is received by the commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner, unless the commissioner gives written approval of the form or endorsement prior to that time. (2) (A) Subdivision (a) and paragraph (1) of this subdivision do not apply to an ancillary agreement between an insurer and a California employer issued in conjunction with a workers’ compensation policy or endorsement that contains a deductible obligation or retrospectively rated loss limitation equal to or greater than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), provided that, for an endorsement containing a deductible obligation, the endorsement complies with the requirements of subdivision (e) of Section 11735, or, for a retrospectively rated policy, is contained in an endorsement filed by a rating organization pursuant to Sections 11750.3 and 11753.
original bill is: 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:


SECTION 1.
Section 11658 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
11658.
(a) A workers’ compensation insurance policy or endorsement shall not be issued by an insurer to any person in this state unless the insurer files a copy of the form or endorsement with the rating organization pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 11750.3 and 30 days have expired from the date the form or endorsement is received by the commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner, unless the commissioner gives written approval of the form or endorsement prior to that time.
(b) (1) An ancillary agreement shall not be issued by an insurer to a California employer unless the insurer files a copy of the ancillary agreement with the rating organization pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 11750.3 and 30 days have expired from the date the ancillary agreement is received by the commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner unless the commissioner gives written approval of the ancillary agreement prior to that time.
(2) (A) Subdivision (a) and paragraph (1) of this subdivision do not apply to an ancillary agreement between an insurer and a California employer issued in conjunction with a workers’ compensation policy or endorsement that contains a deductible obligation or retrospectively rated loss limitation equal to or greater than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), provided that, for an endorsement containing a deductible obligation, the endorsement complies with the requirements of subdivision (e) of Section 11735, or, for a retrospectively rated policy, is contained in an endorsement filed by a rating organization pursuant to Sections 11750.3 and 11753 and approved by the commissioner, and the California employer meets at least three of the following criteria:
(i) Is represented by a broker for negotiations regarding the ancillary agreement and either has a full-time risk manager involved in the evaluation of an ancillary agreement or is represented by counsel during negotiations regarding an ancillary agreement.
(ii) Has 500 or more employees.
(iii) Has an annual nationwide payroll in excess of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
(iv) Has a workers’ compensation manual standard premium on a countrywide basis in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000).
(B) Paragraph (1) controls, and this paragraph does not apply to, an ancillary agreement between an insurer and a California employer that is either of the following:
(i) Issued pursuant to a coemployment arrangement, as defined in subdivision (g).
(ii) Negotiated, managed, or administered, in whole or in part, by a managing general agent (MGA), as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 769.81.
(3) An ancillary agreement shall not do either of the following:
(A) Amend or revise the coverage provided, any cancellation provision, any dispute resolution agreement, any premium or other costs, or the benefits payable, under a workers’ compensation policy unless it is filed and approved in accordance with this section.
(B) Include charges or costs as allocated loss adjustment expenses that are not defined as allocated loss adjustment expenses in the California Workers’ Compensation Uniform Statistical Reporting Plan - 1995, as identified in Section 2318.6 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations and any subsequent revisions, unless the ancillary agreement is filed and approved in accordance with this section.
(4) The terms and conditions of a workers’ compensation policy and any endorsements shall take precedence over the provisions contained in an ancillary agreement if there is an inconsistency or a conflict between the policy or endorsement and the ancillary agreement.
(5) Contemporaneously with any written quote to provide workers’ compensation coverage to a California employer, the insurer shall provide to the insurance agent or broker for the employer a draft of any ancillary agreement that the insurer reasonably expects to require the employer to sign, together with a notice that the terms of the ancillary agreement are negotiable between the insurer and the employer.
(6) An insurer may use and shall subsequently notify the insurance commissioner of an ancillary agreement described in paragraph (2) by providing a copy of the ancillary agreement to the commissioner within 30 days of the insurer issuing the ancillary agreement. The ancillary agreement shall not be subject to filing with the commissioner or rating organization or approval by the commissioner, but it shall be subject to all other authority granted to the commissioner under law.
(7) An ancillary agreement that is described in paragraph (2) shall include language stating that the ancillary agreement has not been filed with the rating organization or filed with, or approved by, the commissioner.
(8) This subdivision applies to ancillary agreements issued or renewed on or after January 1, 2017.
(c) If the commissioner notifies the insurer that a policy form, endorsement, or ancillary agreement does not comply with the requirements of law, specifying the reasons for his or her opinion, it is unlawful for the insurer to issue any policy form, endorsement, or ancillary agreement in that form.
(d) The withdrawal of a policy form, endorsement, or ancillary agreement by the commissioner pursuant to this section shall not affect the status of the policyholder as having secured payment for compensation or affect the substitution of the insurer for the policyholder in workers’ compensation proceedings as set forth in the provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3700) of Part 1 of Division 4 of the Labor Code during the period of time in which the policy form, endorsement, or ancillary agreement was in effect.
(e) The terms and provisions of collateral and security agreements shall be negotiated contemporaneously with the inception or renewal of the underlying policy, and any revisions or additions to those terms subsequent to the inception or renewal of the policy shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties.
(f) This section does not apply to limited policies submitted for approval to the commissioner pursuant to Section 11657.
(g) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) (A) “Ancillary agreement” means an agreement that is a supplementary writing or contract relating to a policy or endorsement form that adds to, subtracts from, or is inconsistent with the obligations of either the insured or the insurer under an insurance policy or endorsement.
(B) “Ancillary agreement” does not include any of the following:
(i) Limiting and restricting endorsements.
(ii) Customized limiting and restricting endorsements.
(iii) Collateral and security agreements.
(2) “California employer” means an employer whose principal place of business is in California and whose California payroll constitutes the majority of the employer’s payroll for purposes of determining premium under the policy.
(3) “Coemployment arrangement” means any arrangement, under contract or otherwise, whereby an entity utilizes the services of a third party to provide workers or human resources services for a fee or other compensation, including, but not limited to:
(A) A professional employer organization.
(B) A leasing employer, as defined in Section 606.5 of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(C) A temporary services employer, as defined in Section 606.5 of the Unemployment Insurance Code.
(D) Any employer, regardless of name or form of organization, that is in the business of providing workers to other employers.
(4) “Collateral and security agreement” means an agreement between a California employer and an insurer under a large deductible program, large risk-rating program, or retrospectively rated program that relates to payments and reimbursements that the insured is contractually obligated to make to the insurer and that includes one or more of the following terms or provisions:
(A) The timing, method, and conditions for making payments to the insurer for amounts imposed by any state or regulatory taxing authority that are made on the insured’s behalf.
(B) The timing, method, and conditions for funding, paying, or reimbursing deductible or retrospectively rated amounts or other policy-related charges due under a policy.
(C) The type and amount of collateral the insured is required to post as security for its obligations.
(D) Payment due dates and transmittal information.
(E) Terms or provisions related to claims administration, including the method for selecting a claims administrator.
(F) Termination and dispute resolution provisions applicable to the collateral and security agreement.
(G) Terms of default under the collateral and security agreement.
(5) “Customized limiting and restricting endorsement” means an endorsement unique to a specific policy used under the following circumstances or for the following purposes:
(A) When the employer’s business is conducted in such a manner that it is impossible or impracticable to determine the nature, scope, and extent of employment covered by the insurer.
(B) To prevent the performance of work in such an extremely hazardous manner or under such hazardous conditions as would reflect a reckless disregard by the employer for the welfare of its employees.
(C) To prevent the issuance of an unrestricted policy if it would encourage an operation that is contrary to law or to the rules of a regulatory agency.
(6) “Limiting and restricting endorsement” means an endorsement that excludes from coverage some portion of workers’ compensation liability for which the employer is required to secure payment pursuant to the Labor Code that, after approval of the endorsement by the Insurance Commissioner, may be endorsed to a workers’ compensation policy.
(h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2022, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 2.
Section 11658 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
11658.
(a) A workers’ compensation insurance policy or endorsement shall not be issued by an insurer to any person in this state unless the insurer files a copy of the form or endorsement with the rating organization pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 11750.3 and 30 days have expired from the date the form or endorsement is received by the commissioner from the rating organization without notice from the commissioner, unless the commissioner gives written approval of the form or endorsement prior to that time.
(b) If the commissioner notifies the insurer that the filed form or endorsement does not comply with the requirements of law, specifying the reasons for his or her opinion, it is unlawful for the insurer to issue any policy or endorsement in that form.
(c) The withdrawal of a policy form or endorsement by the commissioner pursuant to this section shall not affect the status of the policyholder as having secured payment for compensation or affect the substitution of the insurer for the policyholder in workers’ compensation proceedings as set forth in the provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3700) of Part 1 of Division 4 of the Labor Code during the period of time in which the policy form or endorsement was in effect.
(d) This section does not apply to limited policies submitted for approval to the commissioner pursuant to Section 11657.
(e) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2022.
SEC. 3.
Section 11658.5 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
11658.5.
(a) (1) An insurer that intends to use a dispute resolution or arbitration agreement to resolve disputes arising in California out of a workers’ compensation insurance policy, endorsement, ancillary agreement, or collateral and security agreement, as defined in Section 11658, issued to a California employer shall disclose to the employer, contemporaneously with any written quote that offers to provide insurance coverage, that choice of law and choice of venue or forum may be a jurisdiction other than California and that these terms are negotiable between the insurer and the employer. The disclosure shall be signed by the employer as evidence of receipt if the employer accepts the offer of coverage from that insurer.
(2) After compliance with paragraph (1), a dispute resolution or arbitration agreement may be negotiated by the insurer and the employer before any dispute arises.
(b) Nothing in this section is intended to interfere with any authority granted to the Insurance Commissioner under current law.
(c) Failure by the insurer to observe the requirements of subdivision (a) shall result in a default to California as the choice of law and forum for resolution of disputes arising in California.
(d) For purposes of this section, a “California employer” means an employer whose principal place of business is in California and whose California payroll constitutes the majority of the employer’s payroll for purposes of determining premium under the policy.
(e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2022, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2022, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 4.
Section 11658.5 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
11658.5.
(a) (1) An insurer that intends to use a dispute resolution or arbitration agreement to resolve disputes arising in California out of a workers’ compensation insurance policy or endorsement issued to a California employer shall disclose to the employer, contemporaneously with any written quote that offers to provide insurance coverage, that choice of law and choice of venue or forum may be a jurisdiction other than California and that these terms are negotiable between the insurer and the employer. The disclosure shall be signed by the employer as evidence of receipt if the employer accepts the offer of coverage from that insurer.
(2) After compliance with paragraph (1), a dispute resolution or arbitration agreement may be negotiated by the insurer and the employer before any dispute arises.
(b) Nothing in this section is intended to interfere with any authority granted to the Insurance Commissioner under current law.
(c) Failure by the insurer to observe the requirements of subdivision (a) shall result in a default to California as the choice of law and forum for resolution of disputes arising in California.
(d) For purposes of this section, a “California employer” means an employer whose principal place of business is in California and whose California payroll constitutes the majority of the employer’s payroll for purposes of determining premium under the policy.
(e) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2022.
r1 score is: 
0.5454545454545454
==================================
